Suzumiya Haruhi: Volume One: The 

Melancholy of Suzumiya Haruhi 


Colour Illustrations 

These are color illustrations that were included in volume 1. 


Cover Page 


Mil'll 




Inside Flap 



Chapter 1 

"Normal humans don't interest me. 





Chapter 2 

Haruhi gets Mikuru into a bunny outfit. 



Chapter 7 

"Hey Kyon, what's that giant?" 



Prologue Flap 





The Melancholy of Suzumiya Haruhi 

Prologue 

Prologue 


When did I stop believing in Santa Claus? In truth, this sort of silly question holds no real 
significance for me. However, if you were to ask me when I stopped believing that the old man 
wearing the red costume was Santa, then I can confidently say: I have never believed in Santa, 
ever. I knew that the Santa who appeared at my preschool Christmas party was a fraud, and now 
that I think about it, every one of my classmates shared the same look of disbelief watching our 
teacher pretend to be Santa. Although I had never seen mommy ldssing Santa Claus, I was 
already wise enough to be suspicious about the existence of an old man who worked only on 
Christmas Eve. 

However, it took me quite a bit longer to realize that the aliens, time-travelers, ghosts, monsters 
and espers in those effects-filled 'good guys versus evil organization' cartoons didn't actually 
exist either. No, wait, I probably did realize, I just didn't want to admit it. Deep inside my heart I 
still wanted those aliens, time-travelers, ghosts, monsters, espers and evil organizations to 
suddenly appear. Compared to this boring, normal life of mine, the world of those flashy shows 
was much more exciting; I wanted to live in that world too! 

I wanted to be the one who saved the girl kidnapped by aliens and imprisoned in a bowl-like 
fortress. I wanted to be the one who used my courage, intelligence and trusty laser gun to fight 
against villains from the future trying to change history for their own gain. I wanted to be 
someone who could banish demons and monsters with a single spell, battle against mutants or 
psychics from evil organizations, and engage in telepathic fights! 


But wait, calm down. If I really were ever attacked by aliens or whatever, how could I ever 
possibly fight against them? I don't even have any special powers ! 

Well then, how about this: one day, a mysterious new student transfers to my class. Except he's 
really an alien or from the future, and he has telepathic abilities. When he gets into a fight with 
the bad guys, all I need to do is find a way to get involved in his war. He'll handle all the fighting 
and I can just be his flunky sidekick. Oh my god, this is great, I am so clever! 

Or maybe, if that doesn't work, how about this: one day, a mysterious power inside me awakens, 
something like a telekinetic or psychic ability. I discover that a lot of other people in this world 
also have similar powers, and then some sort of paranormal society recruits me. I'll become part 
of this organization and protect the world against evil mutants. 

Unfortunately, reality is surprisingly cruel... No one got transferred to my class. I've never seen a 
UFO. When I went to places that were rumored to be haunted, nothing showed up. Two hours of 
intense staring didn't make my pencil move a single millimeter, and glaring at my classmate's 
head didn't reveal his thoughts to me either. I couldn't help but get depressed at how normal the 
laws of physics were. I began to stop watching for UFOs and paying attention to paranormal TV 
shows because I finally convinced myself it was impossible. I even reached a point where I only 
had a sense of nostalgia for those things. 

After junior high, I completely grew out of that fantasy world and became utterly grounded in 
reality. Nothing happened in 1999, even though I kept hoping, just a bit, that something would; 
mankind hadn't returned to the moon or gone beyond it. I suppose, from the way things are 
looking, that I'll be long dead before you can book a round trip from Earth to Alpha Centauri. 

With those sorts of pedestrian thoughts in my mind, I became a normal, carefree senior high 
student. That is, until the day I met Suzumiya Haruhi. 


Chapter 1 

Chapter 1 


And so, I entered the senior high school in my area. At first, I regretted this decision as my new 
school sat on top of a very high hill. Even during spring, students would become hot and sweaty 
just from climbing the steep road — clearly, my intention of "going to school leisurely" was not 
going to work. Every time I remembered this, along with the fact that I would have to repeat the 
same procedure every day for the next three years, I became tired and depressed. I overslept a bit 
today. Perhaps that's why I walked so much faster, and perhaps that was why I was so tired then. 

I could have woken up ten minutes earlier, but, as all of you know, you sleep best right before it's 


time to get up. I didn't want to waste that precious 10 minutes, so I gave up on the thought, which 
meant that I would need to repeat this early exercise for the next three years. This was just too 
depressing. 

That was the reason for my lone grim face in the time-wasting entrance ceremony. Everyone else 
had the "starting a new journey" look on their face; you know, the unique "hopeful, yet filled 
with uncertainty" look that every new student wears when they enter a new school. For me, this 
was not the case — a lot of old classmates from my old junior high school were also coming to 
this school. To cap it off, a few of my friends were also here. Thus, I didn't look as worried, or 
excited, as other people. 

The guys were wearing sport jackets, and the girls were wearing the sailor uniform. Wow, that's 
a pretty weird combination. Maybe the snore-inducing principal giving a speech on the stage had 
some sort of fetish for sailor uniforms. As I was thinking about these useless things, the idiotic 
ceremony finally ended. I, along with my not-so- willing new classmates, entered the 1-5 
classroom. 

Our homeroom teacher, Okabe-sensei, with his practiced-for-an-hour-in-front-of-a-mirror smile, 
walked to the front of the class and gave a self-introduction. He first said that he was a PE 
teacher, and was the managing teacher for the handball team. Then he moved on to stuff like 
how, back when he was in university, he used to play on the handball team, and even won the 
championship, and that this school seriously lacked handball players, so whoever entered the 
team would become a regular instantly. And then he said stuff like how handball was the most 
interesting sport in the world and what-have-you. Just when I thought that he would never finish, 
he suddenly blurted out: 

"Now, let's introduce ourselves!" 

This kind of thing was pretty common, though, so I wasn't surprised. 

One by one, the people on the left side of the class started to introduce themselves. They raised 
their hand, then announced their name, the name of their old school, and other trivial stuff, such 
as a hobby or favorite food. Some people mumbled their way through it, a few had some pretty 
interesting introductions, while some tried to tell lame jokes that lowered the room's temperature 
by a substantial degree. As the different people introduced themselves, my turn was approaching. 
I'm starting to get nervous ! Everyone should understand how I'm feeling right now, right? 

After I managed to finish my carefully thought-out, minimal-length introduction without 
stumbling over my words too much, I sat down, feeling the relief you get after having finished 
something unpleasant but necessary. The person behind me stood up for her turn and — ah, I 
probably won't forget this for the rest of my life — said the words that would be the topic of 
conversation for a long time. 


My name is Suzumiya Haruhi. I graduated from East Junior High. 



Up to this point the introduction was still normal, so I didn't even bother turning around to look 
at her. I just stared at the front and listened to her crisp voice. 


"Normal humans don't interest me. If anyone here is an alien, a time traveler, slider, or an esper, 
then come find me! That is all." 

Upon hearing that, I couldn't help but turn around. 

She had long and slender black hair. Her cute face was filled with daring and challenge as the 
rest of the class stared at her. Her seriousness and determination shone through her glinting eyes 
and long eyebrows. Her small lips were tightly pursed. This was my first impression of this girl. 

I still remember how gleaming her white throat was — she turned out to be quite pretty. 

Haruhi, with her provocative eyes, scanned the class slowly, stopped to glare at me (I had my 
mouth wide open), and then sat down without so much as a smile. 

Was she trying to be dramatic? 

At that moment I believe everyone's mind was filled with question marks, and that everyone was 
confused as to what their reaction should be. "Should I laugh?" No one knew. 

Well, judging by the conclusion, she wasn't trying to be dramatic or funny, as Haruhi always has 
her solemn face on. 

She is always serious. 

This is based on hindsight — it can't be wrong. 

After the fairies of silence danced around the classroom for thirty-something seconds, the 
homeroom teacher, with some hesitation, signaled the next person to continue, and the tense 
atmosphere lifted. 


That is how we met. 

How unforgettable. I really want to believe that this was all a coincidence. 



After she grabbed everyone's attention on the first day, Haruhi reverted to being an innocent high 
school girl. 

This was the calm before the storm! I finally understand it all now. 

Anyway, everyone in this school came from one of the four junior high schools in the city — 
people with average grades. This, of course, includes East Junior High; therefore there should be 
people in the class who graduated with Haruhi, who knew what her silence symbolized. 
Unfortunately, I did not know any former East Junior High students, thus no one could explain to 
me how serious the situation was. Consequently, a few days after that explosive introduction, I 
did something I would never forget — I tried to talk to her before class. 

My dominos of misfortune had begun to fall, and I was the person who pushed the first block! 

You see, when Haruhi sits quietly in her seat, she looks just like a normal, cute girl, so I planned 
to sit right in front of her to get close to her. I actually thought this would work. How naive of 
me. Someone please beat some sense into me. 

Of course, I started the conversation with that incident. 

"Hey hey." 

I casually turned my head around, with that airy smile all over my face. 

"The stuff you said in your intro, were you being serious?" 

With her arm crossed on her chest, lips sealed together, Suzumiya Haruhi kept her posture, then 
stared right into my eyes. 

"What 'stuff in my intro'?" 

"The stuff about the aliens." 

"Are you an alien?" 

She looked very serious. 

"...No." 

"If you are not, then what do you want?" 

"... No, nothing." 


Then don't talk to me. You are wasting my time. 



Her glare was so cold that I found myself stuttering "sorry" before realizing it. Suzumiya Haruhi 
then removed her glare from me disdainfully, and started to frown at the blackboard. 


I was going to whip back a line or two, but I couldn't think of anything good to say. Thankfully, 
at that moment the homeroom teacher came into the classroom and saved me. 

I turned my head back to my desk damply, and noticed that a few people were looking at me 
with a look of great interest on their face. This, of course, made me feel very annoyed. After I 
stared back at them, however, I noticed that they all had the same feeble expression on their 
faces. Some even nodded at me with sympathy. 

As I said, at first I felt very irritated, but later on I learned that all those people graduated from 
East Junior High. 


Given that my first contact with Haruhi had ended horribly I figured that I should keep my 
distance from her for now, for safety's sake. With that in mind, a week passed by. 

But, just as I was still part of this class, there were always people who wanted to talk to the 
eyebrow-locking scowling-mouthed Haruhi. 

Most of the people were those fussy girls; the second they see that a fellow female classmate is 
becoming isolated they try to be kind and help the girl. This is a good thing, but they should at 
least check their target beforehand! 

"Hi, did you see that TV show last night? The 9 o'clock one." 

"No." 

"Eh, why?" 

"I don't know." 

"You should try it. Even if you started in the middle you wouldn't be lost. Do you need me to go 
over the previous story for you?" 

"You are annoying!" 

That's how it went. 

It would be much better if she could just answer no with her poker face. But no, she had to show 
her impatience in both her expression and her voice. This just made her victim believe that they 



did something wrong. At the end he/she could only say "I see... then I'll just...", and ask 
themselves "What did I say wrong?" and whimper away. 

Don't be so sad; you didn't say anything wrong. The problem is with Suzumiya Haruhi's brain, 
not yours. 


Even though I didn't mind eating alone, I didn't want others to think that I was a loner when 
everyone else was happily eating their lunch with their friends. That's why, even though I didn't 
care if others misunderstood, I ate my lunch together with my junior high school classmate 
Kunikida and an East Junior High graduate named Taniguchi, who sat close to me. 

We started to talk about Haruhi. 

"Did you try to talk to Suzumiya?" Taniguchi asked innocently. I nodded. 

"And then she said some weird stuff and you didn't know how to react?" 

"That's right!" 

Taniguchi put his sliced boiled egg into his mouth, chewed, and said: 

"If that girl is interested in you, she wouldn't say weird stuff like that. All I can advise you is to 
give up! You should know by now that she's not normal. 

"I was in her class three years in a row; I know how she is." 

He used this line as the beginning of his speech. 

"She always does incredibly baffling things. I thought she would at least try to control herself 
after she got into senior high; apparently she hasn't. You heard her introduction speech, right?" 

"You mean the alien stuff?" 

Kunikida, who was busy picking bones out of his fried fish, had butted in. 

"Yeah that. Even back in junior high she always said and did lots of weird stuff. For example 
there was this school vandalization incident ! " 


What happened? 



"You know that one tool where you use plaster dust to draw field lines, right? What's it called... 
Anyway, she sneaked into school at night and, with that thing, drew a huge huge symbol in the 
middle of the field." 


Taniguchi had a mischievous smile on his face — he was probably remembering the incident. 

"That was so shocking. I went to school early that morning, and all I saw were big circles and 
triangles. I couldn't figure out what they were supposed to be, so I went up to the fourth floor to 
get a bird's eye view. That didn't help — I still didn't know what that symbol was." 

"Ah, I think I saw that before. Didn't the newspaper have a story on it? It even had a helicopter 
view of it! The symbol looked like a broken Nazca pictogram," Kunikida said. 

I don't remember hearing about that before. 

"I saw the article, I saw it. The headline was something like 'Mystery Vandal Strikes Junior High 
At Night,' right? Well, care to guess who pulled that stunt?" 

"Don't tell me it's her." 

"She admitted it herself. There's no mistaking it. Naturally, she got called into the principal's 
office. Every teacher was there, questioning her on why she did it." 

"Why did she do it, then?" 

"I don't know," Taniguchi answered flatly, as he tried to swallow a mouthful of rice. 

"I heard she refused to say anything. Of course, when you're getting glared at by her, you tend to 
give up on whatever you're planning. Someone said that she drew the symbol to call out to 
UFOs, others said that it was a magic symbol and was used in summoning monsters, or that she 
was trying to open a portal to different worlds, et cetera... There were many speculations, but as 
long as the perpetrator refuses to talk, we may never know if those rumors are true or not. To this 
day it's still a mystery." 

For some reason, the picture of Haruhi, with her no-nonsense look, busy laying the lines in the 
middle of the school field at night, floated into my mind. She definitely prepared the drawing 
tools and the limestone powders beforehand in the storage room; maybe she even bought a 
flashlight! Under its dim yellow light Suzumiya Haruhi looked very sober and tragic... OK, this 
was just my imagination. 

But truth be told Suzumiya Haruhi was probably really doing it to summon UFOs or monsters, or 
even a dimensional portal. She probably worked on it the whole night in the field, but nothing 
showed up, and all she was left with was that beat down feeling, I thought to myself. 


That's not the only thing she did! 



Taniguchi continued to finish his lunch. 


"Once I came to the classroom in the morning and discovered that all the desks were moved out 
to the corridor, or that there were printed stars on the school roof. Another time she was going 
around the school O-fuda all over the place... you know, those Chinese ones where you put the 
paper talisman on a vampire's forehead. I just can't understand her." 

That's right, Suzumiya Haruhi was not inside the classroom right then, or else we wouldn't have 
been having this conversation. But then again, even if she did hear us, she probably wouldn't 
have cared. Usually, Suzumiya Haruhi left the classroom immediately after fourth period, then 
came back right before the fifth period. She didn't carry a lunch box, so I had assumed that she 
went to the cafeteria to enjoy her lunch; but it doesn't take the whole hour to eat lunch, does it? 
Furthermore, at the end of every period, she disappeared. Where did she go anyway...? 

"But she is very popular with the guys!" 

Taniguchi piped in: 

"She's cute, athletic, and smart. Even though she is peculiar, if she keeps her mouth shut, she's 
actually not bad." 

"Where did you learn all this gossip?" Kunikida asked, with his lunch box twice as full as 
Taniguchi's. 

"There was a period of time where she switched boyfriends non-stop. From what I heard, the 
longest relationship lasted a week, the shortest one ended 5 minutes after the confession. In 
addition, the only reason Suzumiya gave for dumping her boyfriends was 'I don't have time to 
socialize with normal humans.'" 

Taniguchi seemed to be speaking from experience. After he noticed my stare, he became a bit 
flustered. 

"I heard this from other people! Honest! For some reason, she wouldn't turn down a confession. 
By the third year, everyone understood; so no one wanted to confess to her anymore. I have a 
funny feeling that history will repeat itself in senior high. So I am warning you now: give up. 
This is coming from someone who was in the same class as her." 

Say whatever you want, I was not interested in her that way. 

Taniguchi put his empty lunch-box back into his bag, and let out a sinister giggle. 

"If I had to choose one, I would choose her, Asakura Ryouko." 

Taniguchi nodded his chin towards a group of girls a few desks away. In the middle of the 
conversing group, with a rosy smile on her face, was Asakura Ryouko. 



Judging from my analysis, she definitely enters the 'Top Three Cutest First Year Girls' list. 


"You have every single first year girl in this school checked out?" 

"I group girls into A to D categories and, believe me, I only remember the names of the A girls. 
You only get to go through high school life once — I want mine to be as happy as possible." 

"Then that Asakura Ryouko is an A then?" Kunikida asked. 

"She is AA+! Come on, just look at her face, her personality must be first class." 

Even ignoring Taniguchi's egoistic comments, Asakura Ryouko was quite a different kind of 
cute girl than Suzumiya Haruhi was. 

First of all, she was very pretty; plus she always let off a smile-like caring impression. Second, 
her personality did seem to match Taniguchi's description. These days no one dared to talk to 
Suzumiya Haruhi anymore, except for Asakura Ryouko. No matter how harsh Suzumiya Haruhi 
was, Asakura Ryouko still tried to talk to her from time to time. She was so passionate that she 
almost acted like the class monitor. Third, from the way she answered teachers' questions in class 
alone, you could see that she was very smart. She always answered the questions correctly — in 
the eyes of the teachers she was probably a model student. To top it off, she was extremely 
popular with the girls. The term had only been going for a week, and she was already well on her 
way to being the center of the female students in the class. It was as though she had fallen from 
the sky and had been born with extreme attraction in mind! 

Compared to the often scowling, science fiction-obsessed Suzumiya Haruhi, the choice was 
obvious. Then again, these two candidates were both probably too high up the hill for our hero 
Taniguchi to climb. No way was he going to get either of them. 


It was still April then, and, at that time, Suzumiya was actually behaving quite nicely. To me, 
this was quite a relaxing month. At the very least, there would be a month to go before Haruhi 
started going astray. 

But, even during this time, I'd observed some of Haruhi's eccentric behaviors. 

Why would I say that? 

Clue #1: She changed her hairstyle every day. Furthermore, judging from my observation, there 
was some sort of a pattern going on. On Monday, Haruhi would come to school with her long 
hair down, without tying it up whatsoever. On the next day, she would tie it up in a ponytail. As 
much as I hate to admit it, that hair style did look good on her. Then, she would tie two ponytails 
on the next day, and three ponytails the day after; by Friday, she would have four ribbon-tied 
ponytails on her head. Her actions were really enigmatic! 



Monday = 0, Tuesday = 1, Wednesday = 2... 


As the day of the week increased, so would the number of her ponytails; by next Monday, the 
whole process would start again. I couldn't see why she was doing it. Following the previous 
logic, she should have had six ponytails on Sunday... I suddenly wanted to see her Sunday 
hairstyle. 

Clue #2: For PE, classes 1-5 and 1-6 would combine and have PE together, with the boys and 
girls separated. When we changed clothes, the girls would go to the 1-5 classroom, and the boys 
would go to the 1-6 classroom; meaning at the end of the previous period, the guys from our 
class (1-5) would move to the other room to change. 

Unfortunately, Haruhi totally ignored the guys in our class, and removed her sailor uniform 
before the guys had left. 

It was as if, to her, the guys were pumpkins or potato sacks, and she couldn't care less. Without 
any expression, she would throw her uniform onto the desk and start to get into her sweatshirt. 

At that moment, Asakura Ryouko would drive the goggle-eyed, frozen guys, myself included, 
out of the classroom. 

According to rumors, the girls, with Asakura Ryouko as their leader, tried to talk Haruhi out of 
doing that, but to no avail. Every PE class, Haruhi would ignore the rest of the class and take her 
uniform off without so much as a glance. And so, we guys were asked to leave the classroom the 
second the bell rang — at the request of Asakura Ryouko. 

But seriously, Haruhi has a really great figure... argh, this isn't the time to say that kind of thing. 

Clue #3: At the end of every block, Haruhi would go AWOL. When the school bell came rolling 
around, she would grab her backpack and shoot out of the classroom. Logically, I thought that 
she went straight back to her house; I would never have thought that she would go and 
participate in all the clubs in the school. One day, you would see her passing balls in the 
Basketball Club, and the next you would see her sewing a pillow case in the Sewing Club. By the 
following day, you would see her waving her stick in the Hockey Club. I think she also joined 
the Baseball Club. So, basically, she had participated in every sport club in our school. All the 
clubs tried to persuade her into joining them of course, but she turned them all down. Her 
explanation was: "It is annoying for me to do the same club activity everyday." At the end of the 
day, she didn't join any clubs. 

What is that girl trying to pull? 

From this alone, news of a "weird first year girl" spread throughout the school almost instantly. 
Within a month, there was not a single person who didn't know who Suzumiya Haruhi was. Fast 
forwarding to May, people may still not have known who the principal was, but Suzumiya 
Haruhi was a household name. 



So, with all this stuff going on — and Haruhi always the cause — May arrived. 


Though I personally think that destiny is even less believable than the Loch Ness monster, if 
destiny, at some unknown place, is actively influencing human lives, my wheel of fate had 
probably begun to turn. Conceivably, in some remote mountain there was probably some old guy 
who was busy rewriting my destiny. 

After the end of the Golden Week holiday, I walked to school, not sure what day of the week it 
was. The unnaturally sunny May weather blasted onto my skin and made me soaked with 
sweat — the steep hill didn't seem to end either. Just what is it that the Earth wants? Is it suffering 
from yellow fever or something? 

"Hey, Kyon." 

From behind, somebody clapped me on the shoulder. It was Taniguchi. 

His blazer hung slovenly on his shoulders, his necktie was wrinkled and skewed to one side. 
"Where did you go for Golden Week?" 

"I took my little sister to see my grandma in the countryside." 

"How dull." 

"Fine, what did you do, then?" 

"Part time all the way." 

"You don't look like that kind of person." 

"Kyon, you are in senior high now — why do you still bring your little sister to see your grandpa 
and grandma? You gotta at least look like a senior high student." 

By the way, Kyon would be me. My aunt was the one who first called me that. A few years ago, 
my long-time-no-see aunt suddenly said to me "My goodness, Kyon has grown so big!" My 
sister thought it was funny and also started to call me Kyon. After that the rest is history — my 
friends, upon hearing my sister calling me Kyon, decided to follow her lead. From that day on, 
my nickname became Kyon. Damn it, my sister used to call me "Onii-chan"! 

"It is a tradition of my family's to have a cousin gathering during Golden Week," I answered as I 
climbed the hill. 

The sweating sensation made me feel uncomfortable. 

Taniguchi, long winded as always, boasted how he had met some cute girls at his workplace, and 
how he planned to use the money he saved to go on dates and such. Frankly, topics like what 



dreams people have, or how amazing or cute someone's pet is, are in my book, some of the 
dullest topics in the world. 

As I listened to Taniguchi's date schedule (apparently he wasn't stopped by little problems such 
as how no one was going with him), we arrived at the school gate. 


Suzumiya Haruhi was already sitting behind my seat staring at the outside when I entered the 
classroom. She had two bun-like hair clippers on her head; I guess today is Wednesday. After 
sitting down — for some reason which I do not know, the only explanation being that I was going 
nuts, before I realized it — I found myself once again talking to Suzumiya Haruhi. 

"Do you change your hair style each day because of the aliens?" 

Like a robot, Suzumiya Haruhi turned her face slowly towards me, and stared at me with her 
dead serious expression. It was pretty scary, actually. 

"When did you notice?" 

Her tone was so cold that it was as though she was talking to a rock on the side of the road. 

I paused for a while to think about it. 

"Hmm... for a while." 

"Really?" 

Haruhi put her chin on her palm, looking irritated. 

"At least that's what I think, because you look and feel different to me everyday." 

This was the first time we'd had a proper conversation! 

"For color: Monday is yellow, Tuesday is red, Wednesday is blue, Thursday is green, Friday is 
gold, Saturday is brown, and Sunday is white." 

I can sort of understand what she is trying to say. 

"Then that means if we use numbers to represent the color, Monday is zero and Sunday is six, 
right?" 

"That's correct." 


But shouldn’t Monday be one? 



Who asked for your opinion? 


"... Yeah, right." 

Seemingly unsatisfied by my answer, Haruhi scowled at me. I just sat there uncomfortably and 
let time slip by. 

"Have I seen you somewhere before? A long time ago?" 

"Don't think so." 

After I answered, Okabe- sensei lightly entered the classroom, and our first conversation ended. 


Even though our first conversation is nothing to write home about, this could become the 
changing point I have been looking for! 

Then again, the only chance I could talk to Haruhi was the bit of time before homeroom session, 
as she's usually not in the room during recess. But as I sit in front of her, I am fairly certain that 
my chances of talking to her are far greater than those of others. 

But the thing that shocked me the most is that Haruhi actually answered me properly. I originally 
thought that she would go like, “You are annoying, moron, shut up! Whatever!” I guess that I'm 
just as weird as her, for actually finding the guts to go and talk to her. 

Therefore when I came to school the next day and discovered that instead of tying three 
ponytails, Haruhi had cut her long and slender hair short, I felt quite depressed. 

The waist length hair has been shortened to shoulder length. I mean, even though the hairstyle 
does suit her, she cut her hair the day after I talked to her about it! She is obviously looking 
down on me. What the hell! 

When I asked for her reason, however: 

"No reason." 

She answered with her trademark irritated tone but didn't show any sort of special expression. 

She was not going to tell me the reason. 

But I expected that, so that's all right. 



Did you really try to join all the clubs? 


From that day on, talking to her using the bit of time before the home room session became my 
daily routine. Of course, if I didn't try to start the conversation, Haruhi would show no sign of 
reaction. Another thing is that if I talk to her about how last night's TV show was, or how the 
weather is, etc. — those she deemed as "idiotic topics" — she would just ignore me. Knowing 
that, I carefully picked the conversation topic whenever I talked to her. 



She turned her face away in annoyance, marking the end of the day's conversation. 

"Is there a club that is more fun than the others? I'd like to consider joining some myself." 
"None." Haruhi answered flatly. "Absolutely none." 

She emphasizes this again, then slowly let out a breath. Is she sighing? 

"I thought that high school would be a bit better. In the end it's the same as mandatory education. 
Nothing changes at all. Looks like I joined the wrong school." 

Miss, what criteria did you employ when you decided which school to attend? 

"Sports clubs and cultural clubs are all the same. If only there were some unique clubs in 
school..." 

"Well, what gave you the right to decide if other clubs are normal or not?" 


Shut up. If I like a club, then it's unique; otherwise it's plain. 



Really? I knew you would say that. 


"Hmph!" 

She turned her face away in annoyance, marking the end of the day's conversation. 


Another day: 

"I overheard something the other day... It's not something important anyway... Did you really 
dump all your boyfriends?" 

"Why do I need to hear this from you again?" 

She brushed her hair by her shoulders, and stared at me with her bright black eyes. God, other 
than being expressionless, this angry expression seems to appear often on her face. 

"Did that Taniguchi tell you? God, I can't believe that I'm in the same class as that idiot even 
after I graduated junior high. He isn't one of those stalking psychos, is he?” 

"I don't think so," I thought. 

"I don't know what you heard, but it doesn't matter, most of them are true anyway." 

"Isn't there someone out there you want to have a serious relationship with?" 

"Absolutely no one!" 

Total dismissal seems to be her motto. 

"Every single one of them is a moron, I just can't engage in any serious relationship with them. 
Each one of them would ask me to meet him at the train station on Sunday, then for sure we 
would go to movies, amusement park, or to a ball game. The first time we eat together would 
always be a lunch date then we would rush off to a cafe to drink tea. At the end of the day they 
would always say 'see you tomorrow'!" 

"I don't see anything wrong with that!" I thought personally; but I didn't dare say that out loud. If 
Haruhi says it's bad, then it must be bad for her. 

"Then, without fail, they would confess over the phone. What the Hell! This is a sober subject, at 
least tell me face-to-face ! ! " 



I can sympathize with those guys. Making such an important — to them, at least — confession to 
someone who looks at you like you are a worm would probably make anyone feel uneasy. They 
lost their nerve just from seeing your expression! I'm imagining what those guys were thinking 
as I respond to Haruhi. 

"Hmm, you are right. I would ask the girl out and tell her directly." 

"Who the hell cares about you ! " 

What the... Did I say something wrong again? 

"The problem is, are all the boys in this world such dim-witted creatures? I have been agitated by 
this question since junior high." 

Now it's not any better is it! 

"Then, what kind of boy would you consider 'interesting'? Is it going to be aliens after all?" 

"I am fine with aliens or similar things as long as they are not normal. Be they male or female." 
"Why do you always insist on something other than human?" 

When I blabbed that out Haruhi looked at me with disdain. 

"Because humans are no fun at all!" 

"That... maybe you are right." 

Even I can't counter Haruhi's idea; if it turns out that this cute transfer student is half earthling 
and half alien, even I would think that's cool. If Taniguchi, currently sitting next to me and 
spying on Haruhi and me, is a detective from the future, it would be even cooler. If Asakura 
Ryouko, who for some reason keeps smiling at me, has any sort of supernatural power, then my 
school life would be as exciting as one can get. 

But none of it is possible — no aliens, time travelers, or supernatural powers exist in this world. 
Okay, let's say they do exist. They wouldn't just appear right in front of us humble citizens and 
say, "Hello, I'm actually an alien." 

"THAT'S WHY!" 

Haruhi suddenly stood up and knocked her chair down, causing everyone to turn and look at her. 
"THAT’S WHY I AM WORKING SO HARD! ! " 


Sorry I am late ! 



The always-optimistic Okabe-sensei, who is pretty out of breath, rushed into the classroom. 
When he saw the whole class looking at Haruhi standing, her fists clenched, eyes fixed at the 
ceiling, he became just as surprised and just stood there. 

"Er... Homeroom is about to start!" 

Haruhi sat down immediately and glared at the corner of her desk. Phew! 

I turned around, the whole class followed suit and turned their heads as well. Then Okabe-sensei, 
obviously disoriented by the commotion, wobbled to the stage and let out a soft cough. 

"I apologize for being late. Eh... Then let's begin!" 

He repeats again, and the class atmosphere finally reverts to normal — even though this is the 
sort of atmosphere that Haruhi hates the most! 

Maybe, life is just like that? 


But, to tell you the truth, deep inside my heart I'm really envious of Haruhi's attitude towards 
life. 

She still has the aspiration that she'll meet someone from the supernatural world that I abandoned 
long ago, and she enthusiastically tries to achieve her dream. If sitting around waiting is not 
going to achieve anything, let's call them ourselves! This is why Haruhi does things like drawing 
white lines on the school field, painting symbols on the school roof, and pasting cursed paper 
talismans everywhere. 

Sigh! 

I don't know when Haruhi started to do weird stuff that made others mistake her as an occultist. 
Waiting achieves nothing, so why not perform some weird ceremonies to call them out? At the 
end of the day, however, nothing happened. Maybe that's why Haruhi always has that "damn-the- 
whole-world" look on her face...? 

"Hey, Kyon." 

After class, Taniguchi, with his mystified face, tried to corner me. Taniguchi, you look like a 
total moron with that expression of yours! 

"Be quiet! I don't care what you say. Anyway what kind of magical spell did you cast?" 


What magical spell? 



Highly advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic! I remembered this proverb as I ask 
Taniguchi back. He then pointed his finger at Haruhi's now vacant seat. 

"This is the first time I've seen Suzumiya talk to a person for so long! What did you guys talk 
about?" 

That, ah, what did we talk about? I just asked her some normal questions, that's all. 

"How very shocking!" 

Taniguchi sarcastically put on an in-awe expression, then Kunikida popped up from behind 
Taniguchi. 

"Kyon has a history of liking strange girls." 

Hey, don't say things that'll create a misunderstanding. 

"It doesn't matter if Kyon likes strange girls. What I can't understand is why Suzumiya would 
talk to you? I don't get it at all." 

"Maybe Kyon is as weird as her?" 

"Probably. I mean you can't expect someone with a nickname like Kyon to be normal." 

Stop calling me Kyon, Kyon, Kyon! Rather than being called by that stupid nickname, just use 
my real name! At the very least I wanted to hear my sister call me "Onii-chan"! 

"I want to know too." 

The voice of a cheerful girl came out of nowhere. I lifted my head, and of course, saw Asakura 
Ryouko's innocently smiling face. 

"I tried talking to Suzumiya-san a few times already but nothing came of it. Could you teach me 
how I should talk to her?" 

I acted like I thought about this for a while; actually, I didn't even think at all. 

"I dunno." 

Upon hearing this, Asakura smiled. 

"I am so relieved now. She can't go on being isolated from her classmates like that, so it's great 
that you've become her friend.” 

Asakura Ryouko cares for her like a class monitor because, well, she is the class monitor. She 
was elected as the class monitor in our last lengthy homeroom session. 



Friend, huh? 


I shook my head uncertainly. Is it really like that? But, the only expression Haruhi gives me 
whenever I talk to her is a scowl ! 

"You need to continue helping Suzumiya-san so that she can get along with the class. We're in 
the same class after all so we're counting on you ! " 

Sigh, even if you say that, I don't even know what I'm supposed to do! 

"If there is anything I need to tell Suzumiya-san, I could just ask you to pass the message to her!" 
No, wait! I'm not her spokesman! 

"Please?" she asked sincerely, putting her palms together. 

Faced with her request, I could only give vague responses like "erm" and "ahh...". Asakura took 
that as a yes and showed her yellow-tulip-like smile, and then went back to the other girls. After 
seeing that the other girls were looking at me, my heart fell to the bottom of a canyon. 

"Kyon, we are good friends right...?" Taniguchi asked, staring at me suspiciously. 

"What the hell is going on here?" 

Even Kunikida, with his eyes closed and arms crossed on his chest, nodded. 

Oh my god! Why am I surrounded by a bunch of idiots? 


It seems that someone decided that everyone in class needed to change their seats monthly. 
Therefore the class monitor Asakura wrote all the seat numbers onto little pieces of paper, placed 
them in a cookie tin, and let each of us draw from it. In the end I got the seat in the second to last 
row next to the window that overlooks the courtyard. Guess who took the last seat right behind 
me? That's right. It's the ever scowling Haruhi! 

"Why hasn't something interesting happened yet?! Like little grade school kids disappearing one 
by one, or some teachers getting murdered inside a locked classroom?" 

"Stop saying that kind of scary stuff!" 

"I joined the Mystery Study Group." 


Oh? What happened? 



"It was so idiotic. Nothing interesting happened! Furthermore, all the club members are detective 
novel fans but there isn't anyone there that resembles a detective!" 


"Isn't that normal?" 

"I actually had hopes for the Supernatural Study Group." 

"Really?" 

"But they all turned out to be a bunch of occult maniacs. Does that sound fun to you?" 

"Not really." 

"Ah, man, this is too boring! Why doesn't this school have any decently interesting club?" 

"Well, there's not much you can do about that." 

"I thought after I graduated to senior high I would encounter some kick ass clubs! Sigh, this is 
like trying to go into the Major League but then you discover that the school you're attending 
doesn't even have a baseball team." 

Haruhi looked as if she were some sort of banshee ready to go to a hundred Buddhist 
monasteries to lay some curses. She stared at the sky with disdain and let out a huge sigh. 

Should I pity her? 

I don't know what sort of clubs Haruhi likes. Maybe even she doesn't know the answer. She just 
wants to "do something interesting." What is "something interesting?" Does that involve solving 
a murder mystery? Searching for UFOs? Or exorcism? I think she has no idea either. 

"I think it can't be helped if there aren't any." 

I decided to express my opinion. 

"Judging from the results, humans are usually content with their current states. Those who aren't, 
however, will try to invent or discover something to advance civilization. Someone wanted to fly 
so they invented airplanes. Someone wanted to travel easily so automobiles and trains were 
made. But, those things were created by people who possessed special talents. Only a genius can 
convert those imaginings into reality. We ordinary mortals should just live our lives fully. We 
shouldn't act impulsively just because we feel adventurous." 

"Shut up." 

Haruhi just cut off my rather excellent speech, or at least that's what I think, and turned her head 
the other direction. Looks like she's really moody right now. But then again, when isn't she? I am 
used to it already. 



This girl probably doesn't care about anything — unless it involves supernatural powers that far 
surpasses reality. The world doesn't have those, however. Nope, really. 

Long live the Laws of Physics! Thanks to you we humans can live in peace. Though Haruhi may 
cringe at this. 

I am normal, right? 


Something must have triggered it. 
Maybe it's the above conversation? 
Because I never saw it coming! 


The warm sun made everyone in the classroom sleepy. Just as I was nodding my head and going 
to sleep, a powerful force suddenly exerted itself on my collar and pulled me backwards. 

Because the force was so strong, my head hit the corner of the desk behind me. Tears instantly 
came out of my eyes. 

"What do you think you are doing!?" 

I turned my head around madly and saw Haruhi, one hand still grabbing my collar, smiling a big 
smile that was as bright as the tropical sun — honestly, this is the first time I've seen her smile! If 
smiles can be measured in terms of temperature, then her smile was as hot as a tropical rain 
forest. 

"I got it!" 

Hey, don't spit on me! 

"Why didn't I think of this before?" 

Haruhi's eyes shone as brightly as the Albireo Alpha star. She stared at me pointedly. Reluctantly 
I asked: 

"What did you think up?" 

"If it doesn't exist, I can just create one myself!" 


Create what? 



My head suddenly hurt and I don't think it had anything to do with my head hitting the desk a 
moment ago. 

"Really? What an excellent idea. Can you let go of me now?" 

"What's with your attitude? You should be happier!" 

"About your idea, I'll talk to you about that later. For now I just want you to consider where we 
are, THEN you can share your joy with me. But first calm down okay?" 

"What do you mean?" 

"Class is still in session." 

Haruhi finally let go of my collar. I pressed the numbing back of my head and turned around 
slowly. I noticed that the whole class looked totally awestruck. The freshly-graduated newbie 
English teacher, with her chalk in her hand, stared at me and looked as if she was ready to cry. 

I signaled Haruhi to sit down quickly and shrugged towards the poor teacher. 

Please continue with the lesson. 

I heard Haruhi mumble about something and sat down unwillingly. The teacher then resumed her 
writing on the board... 

Create a new club? 

Hmmmm... 

Don't tell me I'm already a member? 

My aching cerebrum just serves to enhance my unease. 


Chapter 2 

Chapter 2 


From the results, my premonition had come true. 


After class, Haruhi didn't disappear instantly from the classroom as usual. This time she 
forcefully took my hand and dragged me out of the classroom, through the corridors, up the 
stairs, and finally stopped in front of the door leading to the rooftop. 

That door is usually locked, and the staircase above the fourth floor seems to have been used as a 
storage room by the Art Club. Giant canvases, near broken picture frames, statues of war gods 
with missing noses and such are all piled up in this little staircase, making what is supposed to be 
a narrow space even narrower. 

What is she trying to do to me by bringing me here? 

"I need your help." 

Haruhi said this while grabbing my tie. With her sharp glare aimed at the lower part of my head, 

I got the feeling she was threatening me. 

"Help you with what?" 

I feigned ignorance. 

"Help me make a new club!" 

"OK, then tell me, why must I help you complete something that you just suddenly thought up?" 

"Because I need to secure a room for the club as well as members, so you need to find out what 
paperwork needs to be done for the school." 

She wasn't even listening. I cast off Haruhi's hand. 

"What club are you trying to make?" 

"It doesn't matter! What's important is to make a club first." 

I really doubt that the school would let us form a club whose activities are unknown. 

"Now listen! After school today, you go and find out what needs to be done, and I'll go and find 
a room for the club. Okay?" 

'NO!' 

If I had replied like that, I was sure I would be killed. While I was hesitating on how to answer, 
Haruhi had already turned and walked down the stairs, leaving a disoriented male student 
standing all alone on the dust-filled staircase. 


...I haven't even agreed to help... 



Sigh, saying this to a plaster statue is pointless. I could only drag my heavy feet, thinking about 
how I would explain all this to my curious classmates. 


Requirements for organizing an "association": 

Five members or more. A sponsor teacher, club name, chairperson for the club, and club 
activities/goals summary are required — which then requires approval from the Student Council 
Executive Committee. The club's activities must fit in with the school philosophy of creativity 
and vivaciousness. Based on the activities' records and results, the Executive Committee would 
debate on whether to promote the association into a "study group." Furthermore, as an 
association, the school will not provide any funding. 


I didn't have to explicitly search for the requirements because they are all listed out on the back 
of the student handbook. 

Members are easy; we can just find anyone to make up the numbers, so that won't be a problem. 
A sponsor teacher is harder to find, but I think I can manage that. As for the name, something 
inoffensive would do. And the chairperson for the club is, no doubt, Haruhi herself. 

I am willing to bet, however, that our club activities/goals summary is definitely not going to 
agree with "creativity and vivaciousness." 

That being said, it's not as if Haruhi is the kind of person who cares about the rules. 


As the bell rang for the end of classes, Haruhi showed off her horrifyingly brutish strength by 
gripping my jacket's sleeve and pulling me out of our classroom at kidnapping speed. It took 
great effort to make sure that I didn't leave my school bag in the classroom. 

"Where are we going?" 

I asked because, well, I'm normal after all. 

"The Club Room." 

Haruhi, so full of energy that she was able to kick away the slow moving people in front of us, 
simply answered with a short sentence, then kept her mouth shut. Please, can you at least let go 
of my hand first? 

After we exited the first floor hallway, we went into another building and up the stairs. We 
walked into a dark hallway and at its center, Haruhi stopped. Of course, I stopped too. 



There is a door in front of us. 


Literature Club 

The crooked name tag is pasted on the door. 

"Here it is." 

Without even knocking, Haruhi opened the door and walked into the classroom without any 
consideration. Of course, I followed her inside. 

The room is surprisingly large, or maybe it seems that way because it only contains a rectangular 
table, metal chairs, and a bookshelf. A few cracks on the ceiling and the walls showed how 
ancient the building is. 

Just as if she came with the room, a girl was sitting alone on a metal chair, reading a very thick 
hardcover book. 

"From now on this will be our club room." 

Haruhi opened her arms and announced formally. Her face was shining with that energetic smile. 
'If only she would show that smile in class...' despite that thought, I didn't dare to say it out loud. 

"Wait a second, what is this place?" 

"The Cultural and Arts club building. This place has art and music rooms for the Art Club and 
the Orchestra Club. Clubs and associations without a regular club room all hold their activities 
here in this building, known as the Old Complex. And this classroom belongs to the Literature 
Club." 

"Then what about the Literature Club?" 

"After all the third year students graduated this spring, the club had zero members. As no new 
members were recruited, the club was going to be canceled. By the way, she's a first year who's 
their only new member." 

"Then they haven't been canceled yet!" 

"Close enough! A club with only one member is the same as none." 

You idiot! Are you trying to take over other people's club rooms? I took a quick look at the 
Literature Club girl. 

She was a girl with glasses and short hair. 



Haruhi was already this loud. The girl, however, didn't even lift her head once. Apart from 
occasionally flipping the pages with her fingers, she appeared stationary, completely ignoring 
our presence. It seemed that this girl was strange as well! 

I lowered my voice and asked Haruhi: 

"Then what about that girl?" 

"She said it doesn't matter!" 

"Really?" 

"I asked her already at lunch time. I said I need her to lend me the room and she said 'go ahead,' 
as long as she can read her book here in peace. Now that you mention it, she is pretty weird." 

For you of all people to say that! 

I observed the weird Literature Club girl carefully this time. 

She had pale skin and an expressionless face. Her fingers were moving rhythmically like a robot. 
Just covering her pretty face, her short hair made one want to take off her glasses for a clearer 
view. She gave the impression of an inconspicuous puppet. In other words, a mysterious and 
expressionless weirdo ! 

Perhaps noticing my intrusive observation, the girl suddenly lifted her head and pushed the nose 
bridge of her glasses up with her fingers. 

I saw her deep-colored eyes staring at me from under those lenses. Neither her eyes nor her lips 
showed any expression at all, almost like a mask. She was different from Haruhi — her face is the 
kind that fundamentally shows no sign of emotion. 

"Nagato Yuki." 

Her tone suggested that her name would be forgotten by most people within three seconds of 
hearing it. 

Nagato Yuki stared at me for a moment; then as if losing interest, she turned her attention back 
to her book. 

"Say, Nagato-san," I called out, "This girl here wants to use your club room for a yet-to-be- 
named club. Is this all right with you?" 

"Yes." 


Nagato's gaze never left her book once. 



"But it might be troublesome for you." 

"It doesn't matter." 

"Maybe you'll even be evicted?" 

"Please feel free." 

Even though she answered promptly, she showed no expression. It seemed to me that she really 
didn't give a damn about it. 

"Okay, then it's decided," Haruhi suddenly interrupted. 

She sounded really hyper, giving me a bad feeling. 

"From now on, we will meet in this room after class. Be sure to come! Or you're as good as 
dead!" 

She said with a smile like the blooming cherry blossoms. I reluctantly nodded my head. 

Please, I don't want to die yet! 


So we've now found a club room, but there was absolutely no progress with the paperwork. We 
still hadn't decided on a club name or what activities it intended to hold. I had asked Haruhi to 
sort these things out first, but she seemed to have other ideas. 

"We can decide on all that later!" Haruhi declared loudly. "Right now the most important thing is 
to recruit members. We still need at least two more people." 

So, you've already counted the Literature Club girl in as well? You couldn't possibly have treated 
Nagato Yuki as a mere club accessory, could you? 

"Don't worry about that. I'll be able to gather people soon; I already have someone in mind." 

How can I not worry? My unease has become even more profound! 


The next day after school, after turning down Taniguchi and Kunikida's offer to walk home with 
them, I reluctantly dragged my heavy feet and headed towards the club room. 

Haruhi only said "You go first!" and rushed out of the classroom with a speed that the Athletic 
Club so badly needed. She was so fast that I wondered if she had added boosters in her shoes. I 



didn't know whether she was in a hurry to find new club members, or whether she was just plain 
excited that she had taken a step forward in meeting extraterrestrials? 

On the other hand, I could only carry my bag, so I moved slowly towards the Literature Club 
room. 


Entering the club room, I discovered Nagato Yuki already inside, sitting in the same position 
while reading her book. I slowly approached her, but as with yesterday her head was buried in 
the book, my presence ignored. Was the Literature Club a pure reading club? Why else would 
she be reading all the time? 

Silence in the classroom. 

"... What are you reading?" 

I asked, not being able to stand the silence any longer. Nagato Yuki answered by raising the 
book and showing me the cover. My eyes saw a large bunch of dazzling foreign words; it seemed 
like some sort of science fiction novel. 

"Is it interesting?" 

Nagato Yuki pushed her glasses upwards effortlessly before replying in an empty tone: 

"Unique." 

It seemed that she'd answer anything I asked her. 

"Which part?" 

"All of it." 

"So you like reading?" 

"Very." 

"I see..." 


Back to silence again. 


Can I go home now? 



I thought of that while putting my bag on the desk. Just as I prepared to sit down on the steel 
chair, the door crashed open like it was being kicked. 

"Hey, sorry I'm late! It took me some time trying to catch this gal!" 

Haruhi finally arrived, waving one hand at us. Her other hand was holding onto someone else's 
wrist — she'd abducted another person! When Haruhi entered the room, for some reason she 
locked the door. Click! Hearing that sound, the light-sized girl shuddered uncomfortably. 

Wow, she sure is pretty. 

She must be Haruhi's "chosen candidate." 

"W... what are you doing?" 

The girl said, close to tears now. 

"W-where is this place? Why did you bring me here? And, w-why are you locking the door? 
What do you want with me?" 



£3 

"Let me introduce her, this is Asahina Mikuru-chan. " 

"Be quiet!" 

Haruhi barked with such force that the girl simply stood in stunned silence. 

"Let me introduce her: this is Asahina Mikuru-chan." 

After announcing the girl's name, Haruhi stopped talking. Seems like that's all for the 
introduction. 



Silence once again engulfed the classroom. Haruhi looked satisfied with "a job well done"; 
Nagato Yuki, as usual, kept reading her book without any reaction; and the girl called Asahina 
Mikuru was simply scared silly. Hey, why isn't anyone talking? And so I started the 
conversation. 

"Where did you abduct her from?" 

"This isn't abduction! I just forced her to come with me." 

That's the same thing! 

"I found her daydreaming in the second year classroom, so I caught her from there. I explore the 
corners of the school during recess, so I've seen her a few times already." 

So that's what you've been doing during recess time when you're nowhere to be seen in the 
classroom. No, wait, now isn't the time to think about this. 

"Anyway, she's our senpai!" 

"So?" 

I looked at her in disbelief. Oh god, this girl doesn't even think about what she's doing! 

"Fine then... tell me, why did you need to find her, erm, Asahina-senpai, right?" 

"Here, have a look." 

Haruhi suddenly pointed towards Asahina Mikuru's nose, causing her to back off instantly. 

"Isn't she cute?" 

That's something only a dangerous kidnapper would say! That's what I thought of anyway. 

"I believe Moe characters are important!" she continued. 

"... Excuse me, what did you just say?" 

"I said Moe! The factor to turn people on! Basically, most detective stories have some characters 
that would turn people on and cause them to be pitied." 

I automatically turned and observed Asahina Mikuru: she has a small body and a face that could 
easily be mistaken for an elementary school student. Her brown hair is slightly curly, hanging 
over her back. Her pair of large puppy dog eyes give out a "please protect me" aura. Her half- 
opened lips reveal a row of white ivory-like teeth that, coupled with her small face, create a 
perfect combination. If she were given a magic wand with a shiny jewel, she might even 
transform into a little fairy! Aargh~, what the hell am I thinking about!? 



And that's not all! 


Haruhi smiled confidently, and then she grabbed Asahina Mikuru from behind with her hands. 
"Kyaaa!!" 

Asahina screamed instantly. But Haruhi was unmoved, clutching her breasts through her sailor 
uniform. 

"Aaaaa!" 

"She's so small, yet her breasts are larger than mine! A cute face plus large breasts is also an 
important factor in turning people on ! " 

Oh my god, I'm about to faint. 

"Wow, they really are big." 

Haruhi stuck her hands into Asahina's uniform and started groping. Stop it, you pervert! 

"Man, this pisses me off! Her face is so cute, yet her breasts are bigger than mine!" 

"H-Help!!" 

Asahina blushed bright red. She tried to struggle free with her arms and legs, but her strength 
was no match for her harasser. As Haruhi started to move her hands towards Asahina's skirt, I 
finally couldn't take it any longer and pulled the perverted girl away from Asahina. 

"What the hell do you think you're doing!?" 

"But they really are huge! It's true! Why don't you give them a go as well?" 

Asahina moaned weakly. 

"No thanks." 

That was all I could say. 

What surprised me was, during all this commotion, Nagato Yuki had been reading her book, 
never once lifting her head. What is with this girl anyway? 

Suddenly, I thought of something. 

"Hey, you can't be thinking... the sole reason for bringing Asahina-senpai here is because she's 
cute and has large breasts?" 



"Why, of course!" 

Oh god, you really are an idiot! 

"A mascot-like character like her is necessary!" 

Necessary my ass ! Whoever said that anyway? 

Asahina tidied her rumpled uniform and raised her head looking at me. Hey, don't look at me like 
that, you're putting me in an embarrassing situation. 

"Mikuru-chan," Haruhi asked, "are you with any other clubs?" 

"Y... Yes... the Calligraphy Club..." 

"Quit that! It'll get in the way of my club activities." 

Haruhi ! Aren't you a bit too selfish ! ? 

Asahina had the expression of a victim in a certain murder mystery, looking at me with eyes that 
begged to be rescued. Then it was as if she suddenly noticed the presence of Nagato Yuki. Her 
eyes grew large and showed some hesitation. A moment later, she sighed and whispered in a low 
voice: 

"I see... I understand." 

What did you understand? 

"I'll quit the Calligraphy Club, and join your club..." 

Her voice was so full of sadness. 

"But, I don't know what the Literature Club does." 

"We aren't the Literature Club," Haruhi clarified. 

Seeing Asahina puzzled, I hurriedly cut in to explain. 

"We're just temporarily borrowing this room for our club activities. The club you have joined is 
actually a new association that Suzumiya Haruhi will create in the near future. We don't know 
what activities there will be; we don't even have a name." 

"...What...?" 


Oh, and the one sitting over there, she's the real Literature Club member. 



Oh... 


Asahina stood speechless, her cute mouth half open. Her reaction? Absolutely normal. 

"That won't be a problem!" 

Cheerful to the point of not being responsible for anything, Haruhi smacked Asahina's shoulder 
hard. 

"I've just thought of a name!" 

"... Okay, let's hear it," I said with zero enthusiasm. 

If possible, I really didn't want to hear it! But since I've already asked, Suzumiya Haruhi used her 
clear voice to loudly announce the name that she just thought up. 


As everyone knows, it all began as a result of Suzumiya Haruhi's simple and naive vision, and no 
other reason. And so... the name of our new club has been decided: 

The SOS Brigade! 


Sekai wo 

Oo ini mor iagerutame no 
Suzumiya Haruhi no Dan 

The Spreading Excitement All Over the World with Suzumiya Haruhi Brigade, abbreviated as 
SOS Brigade. 

You can all laugh now. 

But before I could even do that, I stood dumbstruck. 

Why is it called "Brigade"? It should be "Spreading Excitement All Over the World with 
Suzumiya Haruhi Association " , but since the club still hadn't satisfied the minimum requirements 
to become an association and no one was sure what the club was all about, Haruhi simply replied 
"If that's the case, then let's call it a brigade!" And so the club name was now gloriously born. 

Upon hearing the name, Asahina closed her mouth dejectedly. Nagato Yuki could be counted as 
an outsider, and I didn't know what to say. And so, the motion for the new club name was 
passed, with one for and three abstentions. The SOS Brigade is now open for business! This is 
such a wonderful occasion! 



Hmph, do whatever you like! 


After saying "Be sure to meet here after school everyday!", Haruhi called it a day. Asahina's 
shoulders drooped, her lifeless figure walking along the corridor further giving off an impression 
of sadness. I couldn't bear seeing that, so I called out to her. 

"Asahina-senpai." 

"Yes?" 

Asahina looked at me with her innocent face, which didn't even look older than mine. 

"You don't have to join such a weird club if you don't want to! You don't need to mind her; I'll 
try to find a way to explain to her. " 

"No." 

She stopped, winked, and smiled: 

"It's all right. I want to join." 

"But, this could be a boring club!" 

"It doesn't matter; haven't you joined as well?" 

No! Whether I joined or not is not the issue here! 

"Perhaps, this is the absolute outcome on this Temporal Plane..." 

She said with her round eyes staring far off in the distance. 

"What's that supposed to mean?" 

"Besides, I'm interested in Nagato-san's presence..." 

"Interested?" 

"Eh? No, nothing." 

Asahina shook her head in trepidation, shaking her wavy hair along. 

Then Asahina smiled, looking embarrassed, and gave me a deep bow. 

"I may be of trouble, so please bear with me from now on." 



"You don't have to do that... you'll put me in a difficult position..." 

"Please call me Mikuru from now on." 

She smiled. 

Man, she's so cute that I'm getting dizzy! 

The following is a conversation I had with Haruhi one day. 

"You know what we need next?" 

"Who knows!" 

"I'm thinking of finding a mysterious transfer student." 

"Please tell me the definition of a 'mysterious' transfer student." 

"Those that get transferred two months after the school term has started are definitely mysterious 
transfer students. What do you think?" 

"Maybe it's because their parents got a job transfer and they just had to come along." 

"No, that would be too forced and unnatural!" 

"Then what is natural for you? I'd really like to know." 

"Mysterious transfer student... will they ever appear?" 

"You never really listen to what I say, do you!?" 

Rumors started to flow in the school that Haruhi and I were plotting something. 

"Hey, just what are you up to with Haruhi?" 

Taniguchi would ask that. 

"You aren't in a romantic relationship, are you?" 

Absolutely not! To be honest, I too, would like to know what on earth I am doing! 



"Try not to do anything too ridiculous, you're no longer junior high students! If they find out that 
you vandalized the school trackfield or something like that, you might get suspended!" 


If it were Haruhi acting alone, I could simply ignore her. But now there's Nagato Yuki and 
Asahina Mikuru to take care of — I can't risk them getting involved. When I realized I was so 
considerate of them, I suddenly felt so proud of myself. 

But the thing is, there is no way that I can stop the insane Haruhi! 


"I so want a computer!" 

Ever since the SOS Brigade was founded, the Literature Club room started to have more and 
more stuff besides the rectangular table, steel chairs and book shelf. 

In the corner now stood a portable hanger cabinet, a flask and cups, a teapot, a CD/MD playing 
radio, a freezer, sound recorder, cooking pan, bowl, and all sorts of cooking utensils. Now what? 
Does she plan for us to live here? 

At this moment, Haruhi is sitting on a desk she nicked from who-knows-where. For some reason, 
a black triangular pyramid with the words "Brigade Commander" stood on the desk. 

"In this information age, we don't even have a computer. This won't do!" 

Whoever said that? 

Anyway, all the members were here today. Nagato Yuki was in her usual spot, reading a 
hardback book about a minor satellite of Saturn falling down, or something like that. Asahina, 
who didn't have to come, had still obediently arrived and was seated on a steel chair, looking 
confused. 

Haruhi jumped off the desk and ran towards me with a sinister smile. 

"Which is why I'm going to obtain one now," Haruhi said, like a hunter looking for its prey. 

"Obtain one, you mean a computer? From where? You don't plan on robbing an electronics store, 
do you?" 

"Of course not! It's going to be somewhere closer!" 

"Follow me!" Asahina and I complied with Haruhi's orders and followed her down the corridor, 
eventually arriving at the Computer Study Group two rooms away. 


I see! 



Here, take this. 


Haruhi handed me an instant camera. 

"Now listen carefully! I'll tell you the plan, and you must follow it no matter what! You only 
have one chance." 

Haruhi pulled me down and whispered her "plan" in my ear. 

"Wha!? You can't do that!" 

"Does it matter?" 

Of course it doesn't matter to you, missy! I turned to a puzzled looking Asahina, trying to warn 
her by winking at her. 

You'd better leave at once! 

But Asahina looked surprised at me and started blushing. Oh no, she completely got the wrong 
idea. 

Just as I was about to save Asahina from certain doom, Haruhi had knocked on the Computer 
Study Group room door. 

"Hello there! I've come to collect a computer from you!" 

The spacing is similar, but compared to our room, this room was narrower. Each of the evenly 
spaced desks had a desktop computer on it with CD sound effects. The computer fans whirling 
away were the only sounds heard in the room. 

The four boys sitting on their seats typing on their keyboards all stuck their heads out towards 
the door to see what Haruhi was up to. 

"Who's in charge here?" 

Haruhi smiled pompously. A male student stood up and answered. 

"I'm the president, can I help you?" 

"Do I have to repeat myself? I just said: give me a computer." 

The nameless Computer Study Group president displayed a "What the hell?" expression and 
violently shook his head. 

"That won't do. Because the school doesn't fund us enough, these computers are all bought with 
our hard-earned money! We can't just give them to you for free. Do you think we're fools?" 



"What does it matter? Just one would do, you have plenty anyways!" 

"That... wait a moment, who are you guys anyway?" 

"I'm Suzumiya Haruhi, Commander of the SOS Brigade, and these two are Subordinate One and 
Subordinate Two." 

Wait, who decided we're your subordinates!? 

"I command you in the name of the SOS Brigade: hand over a computer at once! Don't give me 
any excuses!" 

"I don't know who you guys are, but absolutely not! You can go buy your own computers!" 
"Since you've said that, we have our ways." 

Haruhi's eyes glared fearlessly. Oh no, that is a bad omen! 

Haruhi pushed Asahina, who was standing awestruck next to her, towards the president, and then 
she grabbed his hand and placed it on Asahina's breast. 

"Kyaaa — !!" 

"Wha!?" 

Click! 

At the sound of the two screaming, I clicked the camera shutter. 

Haruhi grabbed Asahina, preventing her from escaping, while her other hand propelled the 
president's hand harder into Asahina's breast. 

"Kyon! One more picture!" 

I reluctantly pressed the shutter again. Asahina, and the nameless president, you have my 
sincerest apologies. Just as Haruhi was about to stuff the president's hand under Asahina's skirt, 
the president finally broke free. 

"WHAT THE HELL DO YOU THINK YOU'RE DOING!?" 

Haruhi waved her finger elegantly at the furiously blushing president. 

"Uh uh uh! We now have photographic evidence of you sexually harassing our members! If you 
don't want the school to know about these photos, then hand over the computer!" 


What kind of joke is this!? 



The president protested furiously. I totally understand how you feel, man. 

"You forcefully grabbed my hand! I'm innocent!" 

"Oh really? You can try explaining, but who's going to believe you?" 

I turned and looked at Asahina lying on the ground paralyzed. She must have been in so much 
shock that all energy had left her. 

On the other hand, the president continued to resist. 

"My members are witnesses to my innocence! That was not of my own will!" 

The three members who were standing dumbstruck all nodded their heads vehemently. 

"That's right!" 

"The president is innocent!" 

If Haruhi could listen to you guys, then she wouldn't be Suzumiya Haruhi. 

"All right, then I'll just say you guys gang-raped Asahina!" 

At this instance, everyone's face turned white, including mine and Asahina's. Oh god, did it 
really have to come to this? 

"S... Suzumiya-san...!" 

Asahina desperately looped her arms around Haruhi's feet, but Haruhi simply kicked them off. 
Haruhi then lifted her chest and arrogantly said: 

"So how about it? Are you giving us one or not?" 

The president's face went from red to white, finally turning dark. 

In the end, he surrendered. 

"Just pick one and get out!" 

Having said that, the president sat down dejectedly. His members all rushed towards him. 
"President!" 

"Get a hold of yourself!" 

"Are you all right?" 



The president's head drooped like a puppet whose strings were broken. Seeing such a broken 
figure, even as Haruhi's companion, I couldn't help but shed a tear of sadness for him. 

"Which one is the latest model?" 

You're such a cold-blooded girl! 

"Why should we tell you!?" 

The angry members continued their meager resistance, but Haruhi simply pointed at me and my 
camera. 

"D... damn it! That one!" 

Haruhi looked in the direction the member pointed and inspected the model and serial number of 
the computer. Then, she took out a piece of paper from her skirt pocket. 

"I went to the electronics store and asked for a list of the latest models. This doesn't seem to be 
one of them." 

This girl has everything so meticulously planned that it's becoming scary. 

After inspecting all the other computers, Haruhi pointed to one of them. 

"I want this one." 

"W... wait! We just bought that last month!" 

"Camera." 

"... T-take it, you thieves!" 

Like he said, we were truly thieves. 

Haruhi's greed knew no bounds. After plucking all the cables and wires, she moved all the 
necessary equipment back to the Literature Club room without consideration. She then had the 
Computer Study Group people reinstall the wires for us and had them lay two internet cables 
from their room to ours, so we could use the internet. She even forced them to set up an intranet 
for us. Her despicable ways are no different from a robber! 

" Asahina-senpai . " 

Being helpless the whole time, I could only slowly pick up a devastated Asahina, who was 
kneeling on the ground, covering her face and sobbing endlessly. 


Let's go back. 



Sob... 


Haruhi, you idiot, can't you grope your own breasts!? For someone who undresses in front of 
guys without a second thought, this is nothing! I comforted Asahina, while mumbling about what 
on earth Haruhi wanted a computer for. 

Very soon, I would find out. 


And that is to make an SOS Brigade website! 

All right, here comes the question: Who should make the website? 

"You, of course!" Haruhi said. 

"Since you're so free, you might as well do it! I'm busy looking for the remaining members!" 

The computer was placed on the desk with the "Brigade Commander" pyramid. Haruhi added 
while surfing the net with her mouse: 

"Have it completed in the next day or two. We won't be able to do anything without a webpage." 

Asahina's body lay over the desk, her shoulders shivering, next to where Nagato Yuki is sitting, 
who as usual just reads her book, ignoring everything. Seems like I'm the only one who heard 
what Haruhi was saying. I had no choice but to comply with her. At least I'm pretty sure that's 
what Haruhi thought. 

"I can't do anything even if you say that." 

That's what I wanted to say, to be honest. I'm not used to receiving orders from Haruhi! The only 
reason I agreed is because it's a webpage. I haven't done it before, but it does sound interesting. 

And so, my arduous webpage design began on the second day. 


Having said that, it was much easier than I thought. Because the guys from Computer Study 
Group already had all the software installed on the hard drive, all I needed to do was just follow 
the program and do some copy and pasting, and that was it. 

The problem is, what should I write on the website? 


Right now, I still don't know what the SOS Brigade is about, so I had absolutely nothing to write 
about. After writing 'Welcome to the SOS Brigade Home Page!' on the top, I simply stopped. 



"Hurry up and finish it, you hear?" Haruhi's words sounded like a curse ringing through my ears, 
so I had to use my lunch time to continue my designing while having my lunch. 


"Nagato-san, do you have any ideas on what to write?" I asked Nagato, who seemed to come 
here even during lunch break. 

"Not really." 

She didn't look up. I know this is none of my business, but I'm curious as to whether she even 
pays attention in class. 

Turning my eyes from Nagato back to the 17 inch monitor, I fell into deep thought again. 

I suddenly thought of a problem: what would happen if the school found out that a yet-to-be- 
recognized association is using their bandwidth to host a website? 

"It's all right as long as they don't find out!" I imagined Haruhi replying, "If it does gets 
discovered, then we'll just abandon the website. This sort of stuff is first come, first served, you 
know?" 

Really, in some ways I'm rather envious of Haruhi's optimistic and forward-looking attitude! 

After making some website links and writing the email address — it's a bit early to set up a 
forum — I uploaded the website, which only contained a front page without any details on it. 

That should do! After making sure the page could load, I switched off the computer. As I was 
about to stretch myself, I was startled to find Nagato standing right behind me. 

That's strange, how come I didn't hear her making any footsteps? I didn't know when Nagato 
arrived behind me. Her face was as white as a mask. She stared at me with her poker face as 
though I was some eye test chart. 

"Take this." 

She handed me a very thick book, which I impulsively took. It sure is heavy! Looking at the 
cover, it was the science fiction novel Nagato was reading a few days ago. 

"For you." 

After saying that, Nagato left the room without even turning back; I didn't even have time to say 
anything. Why are you lending such a thick book to me? At this moment, the bell rang signaling 
the end of lunch break. Seems like there aren't a lot of people who respect my opinion. 

After I carried the hardback book back to my classroom and sat down, I felt someone poking my 
back with a mechanical pencil. 



So, is the website done? 


Haruhi held the edges of the desk and stared at me with a stiff face. I noticed that her notebook 
was full of scribbles here and there. I tried to ignore the stares of my classmates and replied: 

"It's done all right, but it's a very simple, crappy website." 

"That'll do, as long as it has an email address." 

Why can't you register your own free email address!? 

"That won't do! What if a lot of people sent their mail in and flooded my inbox?" 

I don't understand how a newly registered email address could get flooded with mail so quickly. 
"That's a secret!" 

After saying that, she gave a mysteriously sinister smile. I have a bad feeling about this. 

"You'll know once school has ended today, but until then, it's highly classified." 

Please, I'd rather you never tell me what it is! 

In the sixth period, Haruhi was nowhere to be seen in class. She couldn't have gone home, could 
she? That wouldn't be possible. It's probably another bad omen. 

Very soon it was the end of class, and I automatically walked towards the club room. Though I 
wondered why I did so, my footsteps never stopped. Finally, I arrived at the club room. 

"Hello there!" 

As expected, there sat Nagato Yuki and Asahina. 

I know I'm not one to criticize, but these two sure have a lot of free time on their hands! 

Seeing me enter, Asahina greeted me with a relieved expression. Seems like having to spend 
time alone with Nagato can be exhausting. 

Wait a moment, you just suffered Haruhi's evil clutches yesterday, and you're still coming today? 


Where's Suzumiya-san? 



"God knows. She hasn't been in the class since the sixth period. She's probably off to nick 
equipment from somewhere." 

"Do I have to do what Suzumiya-san had me do yesterday again...?" 

Seeing how depressed Asahina looked, I said gently: 

"Don't worry! If she tries doing anything strange to you, I'll do everything I can to stop her. She 
can use her own body for blackmail! It's not like I can't beat her when it comes to scuffles!" 

"Thank you." 

Seeing her bow at me cutely, I really felt like embracing her tightly. But of course I didn't do 
that. 

"Then I'm counting on you." 

"No problem at all!" 

Even though I repeatedly assured her, five minutes later, all those reassurances got thrown out 
the window, into the sea, and evaporated like a water droplet on the surface of the sun. Oh, how 
naive I was ! 

"Hiya!" 

Haruhi greeted us energetically and entered the room, carrying with her two paper bags. 

"Sorry guys, I was delayed." 

That sure is kind of you! For someone obsessed like Haruhi, to be considerate of others is 
probably the last thing on her mind. 

Placing the paper bags on the ground, Haruhi turned and locked the door. Asahina reflexively 
shuddered upon hearing the door click. 

"Suzumiya, what are you planning today? I'll be frank, I'm not going to do anything like 
plundering and blackmailing again ! " 

"What are you talking about? I'd never do such a thing!" 

Really? Then how do you explain the computer on the desk!? 

"By peaceful means of course! OK, first things first, let's have a look at this." 

She pulled out a bunch of A4 papers with some handwriting on top from one of the paper bags. 



"These are fliers made to introduce the SOS Brigade to everyone. It took me a lot of hard work 
to sneak into the photocopying room and print these 200 fliers ! " 


Haruhi handed out the fliers to us. So that's why you skipped class, huh? You should count 
yourself lucky that you weren't caught. I wasn't interested in what was written on the flier, but 
since I've already taken one, I might as well read what it had to say. 


The SOS Brigade founding principle: 

We, the SOS Brigade, are seeking all sorts of paranormal events in this world. We 
welcome anyone who has experienced, is experiencing, or senses that they will 
experience any kind of supernatural or mysterious events to come to us for 
consultation. We will do our best to ar\s\Nzr your questions. Please note, however, 
that we do not handle normal paranormal events; it must be a paranormal event 
that we deem to be very shocking. Our email address is... 


I'm starting to have a faint idea of what the SOS Brigade is all about now. It seems that, no 
matter what, Haruhi wanted to indulge herself in the world of science fiction, mystery, and 
fantasy novels. 

"All right, time to hand out the fliers." 

"Where do we do that?" 

"At the school entrance. Right now there's still a lot of students who haven't gone home yet." 

Yes, yes, yes, whatever you say, ma'am. Just as I'm about to pick up the paper bag with the fliers, 
Haruhi stopped me. 

"You don't have to go, just me and Mikuru-chan will do." 

"What?" 

Asahina, who was carrying a flier in her hands, turned her head looking puzzled. I turned and 
saw Haruhi fumbling through the other paper bag, taking out something. 

"Ta-da!" 

Smiling as happily as a robotic cat, Haruhi pulled out a piece of black garment. No, it can't be! 

As Haruhi finished emptying the contents of the paper bag from the fourth dimension, I 
understood at once why she wanted Asahina to hand the fliers, and I prayed for her well being. 
Asahina, may your soul rest in peace ! 



A black leotard, net stockings, bunny ears, bow tie, white cuffs, and a bunny tail. 

Isn't that a bunny girl costume ! ? 

"W... What are those for?" Asahina asked shyly. 

"You should know. To dress up as a bunny girl!" Haruhi said matter-of-factly. 

"Y-You wouldn't want me to wear that, w-would you?" 

"Of course! I even prepared one for you!" 

"I... I'm not wearing that!" 

"Don't worry, the size will fit you perfectly." 

"T-That's not the problem! Y... You wouldn't want me to wear that at the school entrance, w- 
would you?" 

"Why, of course." 

"No! I don't wanna!" 

"Stop complaining!" 

This is it; she's been targeted. Haruhi leapt onto Asahina, like a mother lion preying upon a 
helpless deer, and began tearing off her sailor uniform. 

"NOOO..." 

"Now be a good girl and don't move!" Haruhi said roughly while swiftly pulling off Asahina's 
top, then she moved onto Asahina's skirt. Just as I was about to stop Haruhi's insanity, my eyes 
met Asahina's. 

"D... DON'T LOOK!!" 

Hearing her scream, I hurriedly ran towards the door... Damn it! The door's locked! It took a 
while before I could unlock the door and rush out of the room. 

Before I left, I took one quick peek — I discovered Nagato reading her book as if nothing had 
happened. Doesn't she have anything to say about this!? 

I leaned back on the door, hearing Asahina's screams from behind it. 

"Kyaa — ! !" "Nooo!" "A... at least let me take them off myself... Sob — !" 



These are mixed in with Haruhi's yells of victory. 

"That's great!" "Take that off! Quickly!" "You should have done what I said!" 

Damn it, don't ask me to fantasize about what's going on inside! 

A moment later, Haruhi's voice came through the door. 

"You can come in now!" 

As I sighed entering the room, I was greeted by the sight of two beautiful bunny girls. Whether 
it's Haruhi or Asahina, they both suit the costume well. 

A large part of their backs and cleavage were exposed, the net stockings wrapping their legs 
nicely and the pair of bunny ears bouncing above their heads... 

Haruhi is skinny but has the right proportions; Asahina is small, but her figure is also perfect. To 
be honest, they really are a feast to behold for the eyes! 

Just as I was wondering whether to say "The costume suits you," to a crying Asahina, Haruhi 
said: 

"What do you think?" 

And you still have the balls to ask me what I think. Is your skull badly damaged!? 

"This is going to grab everyone's attention. At this rate, people will definitely come to get the 
flyers!" said Haruhi. 

"If you wear such strange costumes out in the open, people are going to look at you funny... Wait 
a minute, how come Nagato-san doesn't need to wear this?" 

"I only bought two sets. Since they come with accessories, they're very expensive." 

"Where'd you buy this stuff anyway?" 

"On the net." 

"...I see." 

Just as I was wondering when Haruhi became taller than me, I noticed she was wearing high- 
heeled shoes as well. 

Haruhi picked up the paper bag containing the flyers. 


Let's go, Mikuru-chan. 



Asahina crossed her arms in front of her chest and looked at me pleadingly. I could only stare at 
her in her bunny girl outfit. 


I'm sorry, I just couldn't dredge up any resistance. 

Asahina tried to grab the table and resist, sobbing like a kid, but she was no match for Haruhi's 
strength. She was dragged away by Haruhi, and the two bunny girls disappeared from the room. 
Just as I sat down dejectedly, feeling guilty of myself... 

"That." 

Nagato Yuki pointed on the ground. I looked and saw two sailor uniforms lying there... Erm, is 
that a bra I just saw? 

The short-haired, spectacled girl pointed at the cabinet at the other side of the room and then 
went back to reading her book. 

Can't you pick up the clothes yourself!? 

I sighed and went to pick up their clothes, placing them in the cabinet. Ah~!, you could feel their 
body heat on the clothes. They're still warm! 

Half an hour later, an exhausted Asahina returned. Whoa, her eyes are as red as a bunny's, I'd 
better not say anything yet. I hurriedly gave her a chair, and like last time, she simply sat and 
drooped towards the table, her shoulders shivering. Looks like she doesn't even have the strength 
to change. But facing that naked back of hers, I didn't know where else to look, so I took off my 
jacket and draped it across her shivering shoulders. The presence of a sobbing girl and a 
bookworm who didn't care about what was going on, along with me who was at a loss with what 
to do, had brought the atmosphere of the room to an all-time low. The screams of the Baseball 
Club could be heard in the distance. 

As I was about to think of what's for dinner tonight, Haruhi returned. The first thing she did was 
scowl angrily: 

"Damn them! What the hell, those damn teachers! They always get in the way!" 

Not sure why she was so angry, I asked: 

"Is there a problem?" 

"I hadn't even handed out half the fliers and in comes a stupid teacher asking us to stop handing 
them out! What the hell is wrong with him?" 

You moron. If the teachers ignored something like students dressing up as bunny girls and 
handing out flyers at the school entrance, then that'd be abnormal! 



"Mikuru-chan was nearly in tears, and I got taken to see the Principal, and then that Okabe from 
the Handball Club came!" 

I guess the Principal and Okabe-sensei probably didn't know where to place their eyes when 
looking at you dressed like that. 

"Man, this pisses me off! That's it for today! Dismissed!" 

Haruhi slowly took off her bunny ears and then proceeded to remove her bunny girl costume. I 
immediately rushed out of the room. 

"How long are you going to cry like that? Hurry up and change!" 

I leaned on the corridor wall and waited for them to change. Seems like Haruhi isn't really a born 
exhibitionist, it's just that she has no idea what effect the sight of her being half naked would 
have on guys. The reason she dressed herself up in a bunny costume wasn't really to show her 
sexy body, but rather to attract people's attention. 

At this rate, there's no way she can experience a normal romantic relationship. 

I wish she could be more considerate of how the guys think. At least be considerate for me! 
Honestly, to hang out with such a crazy person is really exhausting. Besides, for Asahina's sake I 
had to wish for that. Right... Nagato-san, at least let us know what your opinion is! 

A while later, Asahina emerged from the room, giving a sad expression of someone who had just 
failed her exams. She needed to support herself on the wall or she would surely fall. Not 
knowing what to say to her, I could only stand in silence. 


"Kyon-kun..." 

Her dreamy voice sounds like one of those ghosts from the haunted sunken cruise ships. 

"If something should happen so I cannot become a bride, will you take me...?" 

Erm, what should I say? And, why are you calling me Kyon as well!? 

Asahina returned my jacket to me in a robotic way. Just as I was wondering if she would fall into 
my chest and cry, she'd already walked away. 


Damn... such a pity! 


The next day, Asahina took the day off. 



Haruhi was already famous enough in school, but after the bunny girl incident, her name and 
eccentricity had become the stuff of school legends. Not that I really mind, since I'm not really 
responsible for Haruhi's actions! 

What I do mind is, Suzumiya Haruhi's actions have caused everyone to start gossiping about 
Asahina Mikuru as well. That, and the odd glares I receive from everyone at school. 

"Hey, Kyon... seems like you're having a fun time with Suzumiya..." 

Taniguchi said to me in a sympathetic tone after school. "I never thought you would become 
good friends with her... looks like nothing is impossible in this world!" 

Ah, shut up! 

"I was surprised yesterday! Seeing bunny girls while I was heading home, I thought I was 
dreaming!" 

Kunikida joined in the conversation, carrying a familiar flier with him. 

"What is this SOS Brigade? What's it about?" 

Go ask Haruhi that question. I don't know, nor do I want to. Even if I did, I don't feel like telling 
you! 

"It asks us to provide any paranormal events, but it doesn't define what those are. And, what does 
it mean by not handling normal paranormal events?" 

Even Asakura Ryouko came to have a word with me. 

"You guys seem to be doing some interesting stuff. But if it's something that's way overboard, I 
advise you to stop at once. Honestly, you guys went too far yesterday." 

If I had known, I would have taken the day off as well today! 


Haruhi is still mad. On one hand, she's mad that the teachers stopped her from handing out the 
fliers; on the other hand, she's mad that the SOS Brigade email inbox is completely empty. I 
expected one or two prank mails in the inbox, but it turns out people were more rational than I 
thought. Perhaps no one wanted to have anything to do with Haruhi and get themselves in 
trouble? 

Haruhi scowled at the empty inbox, shaking the optical mouse vigorously. 


Why isn't anyone sending any mail in? 



"There wasn't any yesterday nor today. Maybe everyone does have experiences they could tell, 
but just can't trust a suspicious looking club like ours?" 

I tried to explain unconvincingly. 

Have you experienced any paranormal events? Yes. Oh, that's great, then please tell me. All 
right, actually... 

Please! It's not as if something like that would happen, OK? Now you listen, Haruhi! Those sorts 
of things would only occur in a comic book or novel. Real life is very cruel and strict. Things 
like a conspiracy to destroy the world from a normal prefecture high school, mutant organisms 
wandering in a peaceful suburban area, or a spaceship hidden inside a mountain, all these things 
are impossible. Impossible! You hear me? You understand now, don't you? All your eccentric 
behavior is a result of you not being able to find a way to release your unhappy emotions, isn't 
that right? But, it's time for you to wake up. You should settle down and find a boyfriend who 
would take you home every day and to the movies on Sundays, or maybe you should join some 
sports clubs to release your excess energy. With your abilities, you'd get into the first team in no 
time, becoming an active member. 

...I had wanted to say more, but I had only thought up to five lines when Haruhi's fists came 
waving over, so I'd better stop here. 

"Mikuru-chan took the day off today, I hear?" 

"Maybe she's not coming back. Such a poor girl, I hope she's not traumatized by yesterday's 
events." 

"Damn, and I prepared a new costume for her to try on today!" 

"Can't you try them on yourself!?" 

"Of course I can! It's just that it'll be too boring without Mikuru-chan." 

Nagato Yuki blended in with the background as though she were invisible. Strange, why are you 
so obsessed with Asahina; why can't you for once try the costume on Nagato and force her to 
play along with you? I know I shouldn't say this, but thinking about it, I'd like to see how the 
normally expressionless Nagato would look in that bunny girl costume. She'd definitely give a 
feeling different from the often crying Asahina. 


The transfer student Haruhi had expected had finally arrived! 
Haruhi told me the news before homeroom one day. 


Don't you think it's great? He's really coming! 



Haruhi leaned forward towards me, speaking excitedly. Her bright smile was like a kindergarten 
kid finally getting the toy she wants. 

I don't know where she heard it from, but the transfer student is going to be in Class 1-9. 

"This is a chance in a lifetime. It's a pity he isn't in the same class, but he's definitely a 
mysterious transfer student, there's no mistake!" 

You haven't even met him, so how do you even know if he's a mysterious transfer student? 

"Didn't I say it before? A high percentage of those that get transferred in the middle of the school 
term are abnormal." 

Who on earth made such a statistic? I guess that is a mystery in itself. 

If everyone who gets transferred in the middle of May is abnormal, then there'd be loads of 
mysterious transfer students all over Japan. 

But, Haruhi's way of thinking cannot be confined by logic. After the first session bell rang, 
Haruhi instantly ran out of the classroom. She probably went to visit the Mystery Transfer 
Student in Class 1-9. 

Just before the bell rang to signal the beginning of class, Haruhi returned with a confused face. 
"So is he a mysterious transfer student...?" 

"Hmm... doesn't feel like one." 

Of course he doesn't! 

"I did talk to him, but I still don't have enough information. Maybe he's just putting up a front as 
a normal person; I believe that's highly probable. After all, it's not like they would expose their 
real identities on the day they transferred. I'll go ask again at the next recess." 

Please don't go ask again! I can imagine the Class 1-9 students, who had nothing to do with 
Haruhi, being scared to death by her sudden appearance while she grabbed one of the students to 
ask, "Where's the transfer student?", before she rushed towards him. That, or she would barge in 
when he was having a conversation with his friends and interrogate the startled transfer student 
with questions like "Where are you from? Who are you really?" 

At this moment, I thought of something else. 

"Is the transfer student a guy or a girl?" 


Though there's a possibility of a disguise, he appears to be a guy. 



Then he is a guy! 


Seems like the SOS Brigade has a chance of recruiting another male member besides me. Haruhi 
might just drag that transfer student in without hearing his opinion simply because he's new. But, 
he may not be as nice as me or Asahina. Can she really bring him into the club? No matter how 
strong-willed Haruhi is, someone with a strong opinion would simply ignore her! 

As long as we have the numbers, the "Suzumiya Haruhi Brigade to Bring More Excitement to 
the World" would be formed as an association. No matter if the school recognizes it or not, the 
person that has to do all the paperwork and menial tasks is most likely to be... me! For the next 
three years, I will have to carry the name of "Subordinate of Suzumiya Haruhi" and live my days 
in despair. 

I hadn't thought of what I want to do when I graduate, but I knew that I wanted to go to a 
university, so I had to watch my behavior. But as long as I'm with Haruhi, it seems that this wish 
could never become true. 

What should I do? 


I couldn't think of anything. 

I know I should have just confronted Haruhi, had her dismiss the SOS Brigade, and then tried my 
best to persuade her to live a normal high school life. Perhaps I could have gotten her to stop 
thinking about aliens and time travelers, settle down and find a boyfriend, or join some sports 
club, and be content with these three years of high school. 

Sigh, it would be great if I could have done that! 

If I'd have had stronger willpower, I wouldn't have gotten sucked so helplessly into the whirlpool 
centered around Suzumiya Haruhi. I would have peacefully lived out these three years of high 
school and graduated normally. 

... Hopefully, it would have been like that! 

However, the reason I'm saying this is because of the strange events afterwards that have 
happened to me; I believe everyone understands now? 

Where should I begin? 

Right, let's start from when the transfer student first arrived at our club room. 



Chapter 3 

Chapter 3 


Due to the infamous bunny girl incident, Asahina has become a household name as well in the 
school. After taking a day off, she once again boldly appeared in the club room. 

As there hadn't been any decent club activities yet, I brought an Othello board, which had been 
buried deep in my home, long forgotten, and played some games with Asahina while chatting 
with her. 

The website is done, but it was as good as useless as there were no visitors, nor a single email. 
The computer was only good for surfing the internet. If the guys from the Computer Study 
Group ever found out, they'd cry themselves to death. 

Sitting next to Nagato Yuki, who as usual is reading her book, I started the third round of Othello 
with Asahina. 

"Suzumiya-san sure is taking her time." Asahina said softly while still staring at the board. 

Seeing that she's not affected by what's happened before, I breathed a sigh of relief. No matter 
what, to be able to be in the same room with a cute girl who's one year your senior is enough to 
make one giddy. 

"There's a transfer student coming in today, I bet she went to look for him." 

"Transfer student?" 

Asahina raised her head like a little bird. 

"Haruhi was excited when she heard that there's a transfer student in Class 1-9. She really seems 
to like transfer students ! " 

I placed a black piece on the board and flipped the white pieces. 

"Uh huh..." 

"Oh yeah, Asahina-san, I never thought you'd come today!" 

"Um... I did hesitate for a while, but I was a bit concerned, so in the end I came." 

Where've I heard you say that before? 


What are you concerned about? 


Smack! She flipped one of the board pieces with her tiny fingers. 

"Um... nothing." 

I turned around and noticed Nagato staring at the board. Her face is static like a clay doll, but 
under her glasses, her eyes showed a glare never seen before. 


Her glare was like a new born kitten amazed at seeing a dog for the first time. I traced her vision 
towards my hand which was holding the board piece. 

"... Nagato-san, you wanna play?" 

After I said that, Nagato robotically blinked her eyes and, in a very minuscule way that you 
wouldn't have noticed unless you paid very close attention, lightly nodded her head. So I 
swapped seats with Nagato and sat besides Asahina. 

Nagato picked up one of the pieces and studied it intensely. When she discovered the pieces 
would stick together because they were magnetic, she recoiled her hands as if she were 
frightened. 

"Nagato-san, have you played Othello before?" 

She slowly swung her head. 

"Do you know the rules then?" 

The answer was negative. 

"Well see here, as you're holding black, your objective is to surround the white pieces with your 
black pieces. And then you flip the surrounded white pieces over and they become black. In the 
end, whoever has more pieces wins." 

She nodded her head. Afterwards, she elegantly placed the pieces on the board, though she was 
kind of clumsy in flipping the opponent's pieces. 

After the opponent was changed, Asahina started to appear more anxious. I noticed Asahina's 
fingers started to tremble, and she wouldn't dare lift her head to look at Nagato. She would 
occasionally take a peek at Nagato and then look away quickly, which she did many times. In the 
end maybe Asahina couldn't really concentrate, so black quickly took a clear advantage in the 
game. 

How come? Asahina seems to be very wary of Nagato, I just don't understand why. 



It wasn't long before black won convincingly. Just as the two were to begin another round, the 
perpetrator responsible for all the chaos returned with a new sacrifice. 


"Hiya, kept ya waiting!" 

Haruhi greeted us casually while pulling the sleeve of a male student. 

"This is today's new transfer student in First Year Ninth Class, his name is..." 

Haruhi suddenly stopped and gave a "it's your cue" look. The sacrifice turned and smiled at us. 
"... Koizumi Itsuki, pleased to meet you." 

A skinny figure, he gives an impression of an energetic young man. A very contented smile, kind 
eyes, and a handsome face. If he should make a pose as a model on those supermarket flyers, 
he'll definitely get a lot of fans. If he's a nice guy, he'll be even more popular. 

"This is the SOS Brigade club room. I'm the commander, Suzumiya Haruhi. These here are 
Subordinates One, Two, and Three. Oh and, you're Number Four, remember to get along well!" 

What kind of introduction is that!? The only names mentioned are yours and his only! 

"I don't mind joining!" 

Koizumi, the transfer student, smiled kindly: 

"So what kind of club is this?" 

If there were a hundred people here, they'd certainly ask the same question. A lot of people had 
come to ask me this question, but I could never find the answer for that. If a person can answer 
that skillfully, then he's a talented con artist! Haruhi doesn't seem concerned, however, and 
smiled cheerfully at us and said: 

"Then let me tell you what the SOS Brigade is about, that is..." 

Haruhi slowly breathed in, and then dramatically revealed the shocking truth. 

"To find aliens, time travelers and espers, and befriend them!" 


The whole world's time seems to have stopped at this moment. 

That's a bit of a ridiculous statement. The only thing in my mind was "Just as I thought." But the 
other three didn't think so. 



Asahina was completely dumbfounded, widening her eyes and ears and stared at the cheery 
looking Haruhi. Nagato Yuki was the same, after turning her head towards Haruhi, she stopped 
as if she'd ran out of batteries. What surprised me was that Nagato's eyes widened a little bit. For 
someone who doesn't show a lot of expression, that is a surprising reaction. 

As for Koizumi, he gave a somewhat enigmatic smile; it was hard to know what the smile meant. 
A moment later, Koizumi was the first to get back to his senses. 

"Ah, I see." 

As if he understood something, he looked at Asahina and Nagato, and nodded in comprehension. 
"As expected from Suzumiya-san." 

After making this ambiguous comment, he continued: 

"No problem, I'll join. I look forward to working with you guys." 

He smiled showing his bright, white teeth. 

Hey! Did you just accept her explanation just like that? Did you really even listen? 

Noticing a confused-looking me, Koizumi suddenly came and stretched his hand towards me. 
"I'm Koizumi. As I just transferred today, there's still a lot for me to learn. Nice to meet you." 

I shook the polite Koizumi's hand. 

"Sure, I'm..." 

"He's Kyon!" 

Haruhi introduced me on her own accord, and then pointed to the other two: "The cute one there 
is Mikuru-chan, and the four-eyed one is Yuki-san." 

Crash! 

A loud noise thundered. It was Asahina who tripped over her chair as she was trying to get up, 
and landed her forehead on the Othello board. 

"Are you all right?" 

Hearing Koizumi's voice, Asahina reacted by turning her head, doll-like, and looking up at the 
exchange student radiantly. Hmph! That's pretty annoying, that look. 

"... I... I'm fine." Asahina said in a very small tone, looking shyly at Koizumi. 



"Great, now we have five members! The school won't be able to do anything about it!" 

Haruhi continued: 

"Right, the SOS Brigade is open for business! Everyone, let us work together and move 
forward!" 

What do you mean open for business, missy? 

When I noticed, Nagato had already gone back to her seat reading her hardcover book. Nagato- 
san, Haruhi has already counted you as a member, are you sure you're OK with that? 

After Haruhi said she wanted to take Koizumi for a tour of the school and left, Asahina also said 
she had things to do at home, so only Nagato and I remained behind. 

I wasn't in the mood to play Othello, and there's not much fun watching Nagato read, so I 
decided to go home as well. I picked up my bag and bid my farewell to Nagato. 

"I'll be going then!" 

"Have you read the book?" 

Hearing her say that, I stopped in my footsteps. Turning around, I noticed Nagato Yuki looking 
at me with her near expressionless eyes. 

"What book? Oh, you mean the thick hardback one you lent me the other day?" 

"Yes." 

"Oh, I haven't read that... Maybe I should return it to you?" 

"There's no need to." 

Nagato never minces her words, she always gets straight to the point in one short sentence. 
"Remember to read it today." 

Nagato said flatly. 

"As soon as you get home." 


Her voice has a tone of command to it. 



Besides those required by Literature classes, I rarely touch novels, but since Nagato 
recommended it, it should be quite interesting. 

"...All right already!" 

Hearing my response, Nagato went back to reading her book. 


Which is why, I found myself pedaling my bike as hard as I could in the darkness. 


I returned home after saying goodbye to Nagato and went straight to my room after dinner to 
start reading the foreign science fiction novel she shoved to me. Just when I was getting dizzy 
with the sea of packed words, I decided to flip through the book wondering if I could ever finish 
reading this, and a bookmark fell from the book and onto the carpet. 

It was a strange looking bookmark with flower patterns printed on it. I flipped it around and 
found a line of words written. 


Seven o'clock tonight, waiting for you at the park outside the station. 


The words are so neat, as though as it has been written by a word processor. This plain looking 
handwriting does look like Nagato's, though I'm not certain. 

I've had this book for days now. So is the seven o'clock written for seven o'clock that night? Or is 
it seven o'clock for tonight? Could it be that she felt that I would eventually find this bookmark 
one day and waited in the park every night? Is the reason Nagato wanted me to read the book 
tonight is so that I would discover this bookmark tonight? Even then, why didn't she just tell me 
directly? Besides, I don't know why she wanted to call me to the park. 

I looked at my watch; the time is just past six forty-five. Even though the station is the nearest 
one to my school, it would take at least 20 minutes for me to ride my bike there from my place. 

I thought about it for about ten seconds. 

I stuck the bookmark in my jeans before dashing out of my room and down the stairs like a swift 
rabbit. I came to the house entrance to see my sister coming out, carrying a popsicle and asking, 
"Where are you going, Kyon-kun?" I answered "The station." hopped on my bike, which was 
tied by the door, and rode off to my destination. 


If Nagato isn't there, I think I'm going to laugh very loud at myself. 



Seems like I won't be able to laugh. 


As a careful bicycle rider, it took me till ten past seven to arrive at the park outside the station. 
As the park was far from the main road, there weren't a lot of people at this time of day. 

Under the noises of the trains and cars, I carried my bike and walked into the park. Under the 
lights of the equally spaced lamp posts ahead, I could faintly see Nagato Yuki's slim figure 
sitting on one of the long park benches. 

She really is the sort of person whose presence is not easily detected. Sitting so quietly in the 
park, if one didn't know better she could have been mistaken as a ghost! 

Nagato slowly stood up like a string puppet. 

She's still wearing her uniform. 

"Are you glad I finally came?" 

She nodded. 

"You couldn't have waited here every day?" 

She nodded again. 

"... Is it something you can't tell me at school?" 

Nagato nodded and then walked in front of me. 

"This way." 

After these two words, she turned and strode forward. Her way of walking is like a ninja: no 
footsteps can be heard at all. I could only reluctantly follow behind Nagato, who has blended 
perfectly with the night. 

After a few minutes of walking and watching the breeze blow her hair gently, we arrived at a 
apartment block very near the station. 

"Right here." 

Nagato took out her pass and brushed it once against the electronic sensor at the entrance; the 
glass door ahead of us opened. I left my bicycle by the entrance and followed closely behind 
Nagato, who was already headed to the elevator. Inside the elevator, Nagato seemed to have 
something in mind but said nothing, only staring at the floor number board. Finally, the elevator 
arrived at the seventh floor. 



"Excuse me, but where are we going?" 

It was late, but I had to ask. Nagato, who was walking slowly along the corridor, replied: 

"My home." 

I stopped at once. Wait a minute! Why is Nagato taking me to her home? 

"Don't worry, there's no one else inside." 

Wait, what's that supposed to mean? 

Nagato opened the door to room 708, and then turned to face me. 

"Enter." 

Are you serious? 

I tried to stay calm and entered with trepidation. As I took off my shoes, Nagato pushed the door 
shut. 

I had a feeling of having just boarded a pirate ship, and I apprehensively turned around at the 
ominous sound of the door closing. 

"Come in." 

Nagato said that flatly and took off her shoes as well. If the apartment had been dark, I could still 
have escaped. Alas, it was brightly illuminated, making the wide apartment look even wider. 

I guess this must be one of those posh condominiums. To be so near the station, the price had to 
be very expensive. 

But why does it look as if no one has lived in here? 

Besides the living room, which had a small table with a warm blanket, there was nothing else. 
There were no curtains on the windows, and no carpet laid over the ten tatami-sized wooden 
floor tiles. 

"Sit down." 

Nagato said before entering the kitchen, so I knelt down beside the living room table. 

The reasons a girl might have to invite a boy home while her parents were away from the house 
were going through my head, when Nagato, moving like a mechanical puppet, placed a tray with 
a small teapot and teacups on the table and sat down demurely in her school uniform, across 
from me. 



After that, the unbearable silence. 


She didn't even pour tea for me, just sat there looking at me expressionlessly. Seeing this, I felt 
more and more uneasy. 

"Erm... where's your family?" 

"There isn't any." 

"Well, I see they're not at home... have they gone out?" 

"I've always been the only one here since the beginning." 

This is the first time I heard Nagato use such a long sentence. 

"You can't be living on your own, can you?" 

"Yes." 

Wow, a first year high school girl living alone in a high class apartment! There must be some 
special reason for this, right? I breathed a sigh of relief when I learned that I didn't have to meet 
Nagato's parents. Wait a moment! This is not the time to be relieved! 

"Oh right, what is it you want to see me for?" 

As if remembering something, Nagato began pouring the tea into a cup and pushed it over to me. 
"Drink." 

I obligingly started drinking the cup of tea. All this time, Nagato watched me like observing a 
giraffe in a zoo, so I couldn't concentrate on drinking. 




"Is it good?" 

"Is it good?" 

This is the first time I hear her ask a question. 

"Yeah..." 

After I finished, I placed the cup on the table, and Nagato refilled it instantly for me. Since she's 
refilled it, I might as well drink that. Once I completed, she refilled a third cup for me. Finally, 
the tea pot is empty. Nagato stood up about to refill the teapot. I stopped her at once. 

"There's no need to refill tea for me anymore, can you please tell me why you brought me here?" 

After I said that, Nagato stopped what she was doing and went back to her sitting position like a 
video rewinding itself. She still said nothing. 

"What is it that can't be said at school?" I asked probingly. 

Finally, Nagato moved her thin lips. 

"It's about Suzumiya Haruhi." 

She straightened her back and sat elegantly. 

"And me." 

She paused for a while. 

I really don't understand her speaking style. 

"What is it about Suzumiya and you?" 

At this moment, Nagato showed a look of discomfort. This is the first time I've seen her show 
such an expression ever since I've met her. However, this emotional upheaval of hers is very 
minuscule; one has to be very observant in order to even notice. 

"I cannot completely convey this in words, and there may be errors in the transmission of data. 
Regardless, listen." 

"Suzumiya Haruhi and I are not ordinary humans." 



Such an ambiguous sentence so early on in the conversation. 


"Well, I more or less realized that already." 

"That's not it." 

Nagato continued, glancing at her hands lying on her lap. 

"I do not mean that in terms of deviations of personality, I mean what I said. She and I are not 
ordinary human beings like you." 

I don't get what she's trying to say. 

"The Integrated Data Sentient Entity, which oversees this galaxy, has created a Living Humanoid 
Interface in order to interact with biological entities - me." 


"My work is to observe Suzumiya Haruhi and upload the data obtained to the Integrated Data 
Sentient Entity." 


"I have been doing this since I was born three years ago. In the last three years, no particularly 
unusual elements were discovered, and things were very stable. However, recently an external 
factor has now appeared beside Suzumiya Haruhi that cannot be ignored." 


"And that is you." 


What is the Integrated Data Sentient Entity? 

In the vast sea of data known as the universe, there exist many highly sentient data entities that 
possess no corporeal bodies. 

These entities started out in the form of pure data. As all sorts of data gathered together, they 
became sentient, and finally they evolved by collecting other data. 

As they exist only as data and have no corporeal bodies, they cannot be detected even with the 
most advanced optical devices. 

As old as the universe itself, they expanded along with it, and the relative database became ever 
wider and larger. 



Ever since the formation of this planet, sorry, it should be since the formation of this solar 
system, nothing in this universe is unknown to them. For them, this planet at the edge of the 
Milky Way is nothing special, because there are numerous planets in the galaxy with sentient 
organic lifeforms like this one, so numerous that they cannot be counted. 

However, as the bipedal lifeform's evolution on the third planet of this solar system became a 
success, these lifeforms gradually acquired the mental ability to actively seek knowledge. This 
organic lifeform living on the planet known as Earth started to become important. 


"For a long time, we have always believed it impossible for organic lifeforms, who have limited 
data collection and transmission ability, to be able to acquire knowledge," Nagato Yuki said in a 
serious tone. 

"The Integrated Data Entity is very interested in all forms of organic lifeforms on Earth. It 
believes that by observation, it can find the solution to its own evolutionary dead end. " 


Unlike the data entities, who have existed since the beginning in their completed form, humans 
started off as incomplete organic lifeforms, rapidly evolving by expanding the data that they 
possessed and using this data, which is saved and enhanced, to further advance themselves. 

It is normal for organic lifeforms all over the universe to become sentient, but only the humans 
on Earth have evolved continuously to a highly sentient level. The Integrated Data Entity was 
very intrigued by this, and decided to observe these humans further. 


"Three years ago, we discovered a very abnormal data hotspot unlike other humans appearing on 
the surface of this planet. The information sparks emitted from a certain area in the bow-shaped 
archipelago instantly covered the whole planet and started to spread towards outer space. And 
the center of all that is Suzumiya Haruhi." 


"We do not know why that happened, nor do we know what effects it would have. Even the data 
entities are unable to fully process the new data being created." 

"More importantly, humans are limited in the amount of data that they can process, yet Suzumiya 
Haruhi was able to create a flare of data on her own." 


"The release of massive amounts of data from Suzumiya Haruhi continues to happen, at 
completely random intervals. Furthermore, Suzumiya Haruhi seems unaware of all this herself. 



"For three years, I have gone through all sorts of investigations on the individual known as 
Suzumiya Haruhi from all perspectives, but up to now I was still unable to discover her true 
identity. Concurrently, other parts of the Integrated Data Entity have determined that she is the 
key to the evolution of the data entities and have continued their analysis of Suzumiya Haruhi..." 


"As they exist only as entities, they are incapable of speech and are thus unable to interact with 
organic lifeforms. But without speech, contact with humans would be impossible, hence the 
Integrated Data Entity has created me to act as the communication bridge between them and 
humans." 

Finally, Nagato picked up her cup and sipped her tea. She has probably said a year's worth of 
words for her. 


I don't know how to respond. 

"The potential for self-induced evolution may lie within Suzumiya Haruhi; she may even hold 
the ability to control all the data around her. This is why I am here, and that is also why you are 
here." 

My brain is getting so confused, I interrupted: 

"I'll be honest, I don't know what on earth you are talking about." 

"Please believe me." 

Nagato looked at me with a serious expression that I'd never seen before. 

"There is a very limited amount of data that can be conveyed through speech. I am just a terminal 
interface for the data, living as an organic alien in order to interact with humans. I am unable to 
convey all the thoughts of the Integrated Data Entity to you, so please understand." 

Even if you say that, I still don't get it! 

"I don't understand, why look to me? Let's say I believe you are an alien created by that 
whatever-you-call-it entity, but why are you telling me this?" 

"Because you have been specifically chosen by Suzumiya Haruhi. Whether she intends to or not, 
as an Absolute Data Entity, she can influence the environment around her based on her thoughts 
alone. There must be some reason why you have been chosen." 


No, there isn't! 



"There is. Perhaps for Suzumiya Haruhi, you play an important pivotal role. The endless 
possibilities are now in the hands of both you and Suzumiya Haruhi." 

"Are you serious?" 

"Yes." 

For the first time, I carefully studied Nagato Yuki's face. I thought she never liked talking, but 
now that she has opened her floodgates and let her words flow, they were all words that I could 
not understand. I always felt that she was queer in some way, but after hearing this speech, I 
discovered her queerness was beyond imagination. 

Integrated Data Sentient Entity? Living Humanoid Interface? 

Give me a break! 

"Okay, I think you should tell this directly to Haruhi, I bet she'd be very delighted. To be frank, 
I'm not that interested in these topics, sorry about that." 

"The majority of the Integrated Data Entity speculates that if Suzumiya Haruhi becomes aware 
of her own powers and existence, an unforeseen crisis might occur; hence, at this stage we have 
opted to continue observing." 

"There's a chance I'd tell all of this to Haruhi! I really don't get it, why tell me all this?" 

"Even if you tell her, it is likely she would ignore it." 

It is likely indeed. 

"I'm not the only alien placed on Earth by the Integrated Data Sentient Entity. The Entity intends 
to take a proactive role and observe any changes in the flow of data. For Suzumiya, you are an 
important person. If there is any sign of a crisis looming, I will look to you first." 

Sorry, count me out. 

Please excuse me, thanks for the tea, it was nice. 

Seeing me about to leave, Nagato didn't stop me. 

She lowered her head and glanced at her teacup, reverting back to her normal expressionless 
mode. I guess it was my imagination, but for some reason, I actually thought she looked kind of 
lonely. 



When my mom asked me where I'd been, I gave a brief reply and went straight to my room. 
Lying on my bed, I began to recall everything Nagato said. 

If I believed what she said, then that would make Nagato Yuki a being that is not of this world; 
in other words, an alien. 

Isn't this exactly the sort of mystical being that Suzumiya Haruhi has been working so hard to 
look for every day? 

And all this time it was all right under our noses. 

... Heh... Damn it! I sound like an idiot! 

My eye caught the thick hardback novel that was thrown on the corner of the bed. I picked it up 
with the bookmark and had a glimpse at the cover art before placing it by my pillow. 

Nagato must have picked up all those weird fantasies from reading all those science fiction 
novels all alone in her apartment for so long. She probably never talks to anyone in her class, 
imprisoning herself in her own mind. She ought to put down her book, get out and make some 
friends, and enjoy the wonderful school life. Her lack of expression is not helping in getting 
along with people, and she would look very cute if she'd only smile. 

I think I'll return the book to her tomorrow... Forget it, since I've borrowed it, I might as well 
finish it. 


The following day after school. 

As I was on duty that day, I arrived at the club room later than usual, and the first thing I saw 
was Haruhi toying around with Asahina. 

"Hold still! Damn it! Be a good girl and don't move!" 

"N... nooo! H... help—" 

Haruhi had nearly stripped a struggling Asahina of her uniform. 

"KYAA!!!" 

Asahina screamed when she noticed me arriving. 

The moment I saw Asahina with only her bra and panties on, I immediately turned around and 
shut the half-opened door. 


Sorry about that. 



After waiting outside the door for ten minutes, the duet of Asahina's cute moans and Haruhi's 
ecstatic exclamations came to an end. Haruhi's voice passed through the door. 

"All right, you can come in now." 

As I reentered the room, I stopped in astonishment. 

There greeting me inside was the sight of a beautiful maid. 

Dressed in a maid costume, Asahina sat on the steel chair with tears in her eyes. After sadly 
looking at me, she lowered her head. 

A white apron coupled with a wavy skirt, a blouse, and white stockings only served to make her 
more adorable. The lacy headband and the large butterfly-knot increased her charm. 

Such an impeccable maid! 

"Well? Isn't she cute?" 

Haruhi said as if praising her own handiwork, while caressing Asahina's hair. 

I wholeheartedly agree. No offense to poor Asahina, but she really does look cute in that. 

"This costume's great, isn't it?" 

"No, it isn't!" Asahina protested softly, yet I pretended I didn't hear her and turned to Haruhi. 

"Why are you dressing her up as a maid?" 

"Because maid costumes are sexy!" 

Stop giving such ambiguous answers! 

"It took me a long time to think of this, you know?" 

Even if you didn't think at all, it wouldn't make much of a difference. 

"In a play where the school is the main stage, there's bound to be an adorable character like 
Mikuru-chan. In other words, the story won't be able to take off without her, you get it? Mikuru- 
chan is already gentle and cute, but unless you dress such a cute schoolgirl with a great figure in 
a maid costume, you won't get people's attention. Now everyone's going to fall in love with her 
when they see her. With this, we'll be sure of victory!" 

Anyway, what is it that you are trying to win, exactly? 



As I was thinking of how to respond, Haruhi took out a digital camera out of nowhere and started 
taking souvenir shots. 

Asahina blushed bright red and shook her head violently. 

"P... please stop shooting!!!" 

Asahina-sempai, you're wasting your time begging for mercy from Haruhi, even if you bow and 
kneel, because she's the sort who will carry on doing what she's thought out, no matter what. 

As expected, Haruhi had Asahina perform all sorts of poses for her photo session. 

"Sniff..." 

"Now look over here! Lower your chin a bit! Lift up your apron! Yes, that's a good girl! Smile a 
bit more ! " 

Haruhi ceaselessly gave out her orders to Asahina while simultaneously pressing down on the 
camera shutter. If I had asked her where she got this digital camera from, she'd definitely say 
she'd had it "obtained" somewhere. More like stolen, I guess. 

Amidst Haruhi's photo shooting frenzy, Nagato Yuki sat in her seat reading as always. Despite 
her confusing conversation with me last night, seeing her usual coolness I breathed a sigh of 
relief. 

"Kyon, your turn to shoot." 

Haruhi handed the camera to me and turned towards Asahina. Then, like an alligator slowly 
approaching an unsuspecting bird, she closed her arms around Asahina's shoulders. 

"Ah..." 

Haruhi smiled to a shrugging Asahina. 

"Mikuru-chan, try to look a little cuter, OK?" 

That said, Haruhi proceeded to loosen Asahina's ribbon, then quickly unbuttoned three buttons 
on her blouse. Almost instantaneously revealing Asahina's large bosom. 

"W-wait! No... what are you doing...!?" 

"Don't worry, it doesn't really matter, does it?" 


Of course it matters, missy! 



In the end, Asahina was forced to place her hands on her lap and slightly lean forward. Faced 
with Asahina's well-endowed bust, which was in stark contrast to her small body and cute face, I 
quickly turned my eyes away. But I wouldn't have been able to take any pictures that way, so 
faced with no choice, I turned my eyes back to the camera and pressed the shutter repeatedly as 
Haruhi had ordered. 

Poor Asahina was made to perform poses which further emphasized the curves on her breasts, 
and she was so embarrassed her face got even redder. Yet, even as she was about to cry, she still 
tried her clumsiest best to smile, giving out a charm never seen before. 

Damn it, I think I'm quickly falling in love with her. 

"Yuki-chan, lend me your glasses." 

Nagato Yuki slowly lifted her head, then slowly took off her glasses and gave them to Haruhi, 
and then slowly moved her gaze back to her book. Can you even read without glasses? 

Haruhi took the glasses and placed them on Asahina's face. 

"The glasses would look better if they're slightly tilted. There, that would be perfect! Kyon, 
remember to take more pictures of the four-eyed, innocent and well-endowed maid!" 

Putting aside the argument of whether to take the photos or not, just what do you intend to do 
with the photos of Asahina in a maid costume anyway? 

"Mikuru-chan, from now on you are to wear this costume every time you come for club 
activities!" 

"How could you..." 

Asahina tried her best to express refusal, but Haruhi grabbed her and caressed her face endlessly. 

"Who asked you to be so cute? Man, even a girl like me can't resist doing this to you now!" 

Asahina screamed and tried to escape, but to no avail, being at the mercy of Haruhi's molesting 
hands. 

Damn, Haruhi, I'm so jealous of you. No, wait, how can I even think like that!? I should be 
trying to save her! 

"All right, I think it's time for you to stop now!" 

I tried to pull Haruhi away from her sexual harassment of Asahina, but she just wouldn't let go. 


That's enough, stop it already! 



"Does it matter? Why don't you join in as well?" 

Not a bad idea actually, but seeing Asahina's face going white, I naturally said nothing. 

"Whoa, what's going on here?" 

Turning around, I saw Koizumi Itsuki standing at the entrance with his bag. 

He looked amusedly first at Haruhi, whose hands were moving onto Asahina's breasts; then at 
me, who was trying to stop Haruhi's madness; then to Asahina in a maid costume, trembling 
nonstop; and finally to Nagato, who remained unfazed, peacefully reading her book even without 
her glasses. 

"Is this some sort of club activity?" 

"Koizumi, you came at just the right time! Let's play with Asahina!" 

What on earth are you talking about!? 

Koizumi only grinned. Please, if you actually agree with Haruhi's suggestions, then you've got 
some serious issues. 

"No thanks, seems pretty scary to me." 

Koizumi placed his bag on the table and unfolded one of the chairs by the wall. 



& 

Koizumi: "Is this some sort of club activity?" 


Mind if I just sit and watch? 



He sat with his legs crossed and looked at me as if he were watching a parade. 


"Don't mind me. Please, continue." 

No! You got it all wrong! I'm not trying to molest Asahina! I'm trying to save her! 

Eventually, I was able to squeeze in between Haruhi and Asahina, and frantically picked up 
Asahina just in time before she fell on the ground. I was amazed by how light Asahina was as I 
placed her back on her seat. Asahina's maid costume was ragged and untidy, and she looked 
totally worn out, but honestly speaking, I thought she looked rather sexy. 

"Oh well, we've taken plenty of photos anyway." 

Asahina was so exhausted that she just weakly collapsed on the table. Haruhi took off the glasses 
from her cute face and returned them to Nagato. 

Nagato silently received the glasses, putting them back on without saying a word. It's as though 
her endless speech last night never happened. She was fooling with me last night, wasn't she? 

"Right, let's now begin the first SOS Brigade meeting!" 

Haruhi, who was standing on the commander's seat, suddenly shouted. Please stop startling 
people by suddenly shouting! 

"Before this, we've already done a lot of work. Like distributing flyers and setting up the 
webpage, the SOS Brigade's reputation in the school has soared sky high, so I announce phase 
one of the work to be a great success." 

How can making Asahina mentally scarred be called a success!? 

"But our inbox has yet to receive a single email about any mysterious events, and no one has yet 
come to us to discuss their concerns with their experiences." 

Reputation alone doesn't help a lot, since until now, not everyone knows what this club is all 
about. Besides, the school doesn't even recognize this club! 

"There used to be a saying that 'patience is virtue', but times have changed. Even if we have to 
turn the earth around, we'll find them on our own. So everyone, let's begin searching!" 

"... What are we looking for?" 

Since no one else asked, I decided to do it myself. 

"To find out all the mysterious events of this world! As long as we try hard, we'll be able to find 
one or two events in this town!" 



Your thinking is a mystery in itself, missy! 

I displayed my reluctance, Koizumi only smiled enigmatically, Nagato remained wooden faced, 
while Asahina seemed resigned to her fate, too exhausted to answer. Ignoring everyone's 
reactions, Haruhi waved her arms and yelled: 

"This Saturday, which is tomorrow! We meet outside the north station before nine in the 
morning! Don't be late! Absentees will be executed!" 

Sigh, not the death penalty again? 


What did Haruhi do with Asahina's maid costume photos? I'm sure most of you have guessed, 
the stupid girl intended to upload all of them onto the webpage so that they could attract people 
to the website for discussion. 

When I discovered this, she had just finished uploading them all on the front page to welcome 
visitors. She was even typing in the personal details. 

Do you know what you're doing!? This could alert a lot of people! 

I tried my best to stop her foolish behavior and had all the images removed. If Asahina had 
known that images of her posing sexily in her maid costume had been spread all over the world, 
she'd probably faint on the spot. 

I quickly warned her about the dangers of putting personal details on the web, and amazingly for 
once, Haruhi actually paid attention and listened to me seriously. Eventually, as if to spite me, 
she said rather grumpily: 

"I know that already!" 

She then very reluctantly allowed me to remove the images from the page. At this moment, I 
should have been deleting all of Asahina's photos, but it would have been too much of a pity 
doing that. Hence, I secretly saved them all in a file document within the computer's hard drive 
and had it protected with a password. 

Only I can view those photos! 


Chapter 4 


Chapter 4 


What kind of joke is this!? Asking us to meet at nine in the morning on a weekend! Despite that, 
though, I still pedaled hard on my bike towards the station. I'm so hopeless! 

Being located in the center of town, Kitaguchi station acts as an important railway hub, and 
every weekend, the square in front of the station is packed with window-shopping youngsters. 
Apart from going to a larger city there's really not much to do in this town besides going to the 
mall near the station. It always amazes me how people can live normal lives in this town with so 
little to do. 

Randomly placing my bike at the closed entrance to the bank, I ran to the turnstiles on the north 
entrance of the station. It was still five minutes to nine, but everyone else had arrived. 

Haruhi turned her head and said. 

"You're late! You've got to be fined!" 

"But it's not nine yet." 

"Even if you didn't arrive late, the last person to arrive still has to be punished. That's the rule!" 
"How come I never heard that rule before?" 

"Because I just thought it up!" 

Dressed in a long sleeved T-shirt and a short denim skirt, Haruhi looked very cheerful. 

"You'll have to treat all of us to drinks." 

Placing her arms on her waist with ease, Haruhi looked much more approachable than her usual 
scowling self. Unable to argue, I obligingly agreed to her command and led everyone to a nearby 
cafe. 

Asahina was dressed in a white sleeveless one-piece dress with a light blue knitted shirt on top. 
Her long wavy hair was clipped at the back of her head with a hair clip. Every time she moved, it 
would bounce slightly, making her look cute. Her smile gave her an impression of a well 
cultured cute young lady. Even her handbag looked trendy. 

Standing next to me, Koizumi wore a pink shirt with a jacket on top, as well as sporting a bright 
red necktie, making him look very formal. I was irritated but I had to admit he looked rather 
cool, plus he's taller than me. 

Nagato, as usual, stood in the back wearing her sailor uniform. Even though she completely 
viewed herself as a member of the SOS Brigade, technically she was still with the Literature 
Club. Hearing her say all those strange things to me the other night made me even more 



concerned about her cool expression. By the way, why was she wearing a school uniform even 
on the weekends? 

As the Mystery Five walked into the cafe by the roundabout and sat down in our chairs, the 
waitress started taking our orders. Only Nagato studied the menu seriously - still no expression 
displayed, of course - taking her time to decide. Honestly, the time it took for her to decide on 
what to drink was enough to cook a bowl of ramen ! 

"Almond tea." She finally said. 

It doesn't matter what you order, anyway, as I'm the one who's paying. 


Haruhi made the following suggestions: 

We would split into two parties. If any of us were to find anything that looked mysterious we 
were to contact each other at once by cell phone then meet up to discuss what to do next. Once it 
was all over a debriefing would be held to review and prepare for further developments. 

That was all. 

"Now, let's draw lots!" 

Haruhi took five toothpicks from the toothpick stand, then using a pen she borrowed from the 
waitress, she marked two of the toothpicks. She then wrapped her fingers around the toothpicks 
for us to draw. 

I drew a marked one; so did Asahina who said while looking at her marked toothpick, "Hmm, 
what a combination, huh..." 

For some reason Haruhi coldly glared at me and Asahina, and then yelled, "Kyon, you listen, this 
is not a date! Be serious, you understand?" 

"OK already!" 

Did I just show my thoughts to her? Nevertheless, this is great! I danced with joy inside as I saw 
Asahina stare at the marked toothpick blushing furiously. Oh yes! 

"What exactly are we looking for?" Koizumi asked nonchalantly, while Nagato drank her tea 
methodically. 


Finishing the last drop of iced coffee, Haruhi lightly flicked the hair behind her ears. 



"Anything that looks suspicious. Anything or anyone that looks funny. Also look for portals that 
can lead to a different dimensions and aliens disguised as humans." 


I nearly spat out the mint tea I was drinking. That's strange, why does Asahina have the same 
expression? Of course, Nagato remains the same as always. 

"I see." Koizumi said. 

Are you sure you really understand? 

"So, all we need to do is to look for aliens, time travelers and espers with super-natural powers, 
and the traces they left behind on earth. I fully understand." Koizumi said cheerfully. 

"That's right! You really are a bright person, Koizumi! It's just like you said! Kyon, you should 
learn from him!" 

Stop feeding her ego! Annoyed, I looked at Koizumi who only smiled back at me and nodded. 
"Alright! Let's go!" 

Haruhi shoved the bill at me and strode out of the cafe. 

Though I've said this many times, I've still got to say it: 

"Oh boy." 


Remember , this is not a date! If I find you going off to have fun with her, I'll kill you I So Haruhi 
said, going off with Koizumi and Nagato. We headed East and West respectively. I still don't 
know what is it we're supposed to look for. 

"What should we do?" 

Asahina looked at me, clutching her bag with her hands. I wanted to go home but knew it was 
impossible. So, I pretended to think for a while before saying, "It's pointless just standing here, 
so let's take a walk around." 

"OK." 

Asahina obligingly walked with me. She was hesitant when walking with me shoulder to 
shoulder. Every time when she accidentally bumped into my shoulder she would recoil shyly. 
She looked so innocent like that. We followed a path by the riverbank and aimlessly headed 



north. If we had come a month ago, we could've still enjoyed the blooming of cherry blossom 
trees, but now it's just a plain riverside walk. 

As this is a popular spot for walking there are many families and couples walking along. If one 
didn't know, they would think we're a young couple, and not a group looking for something 
mysterious. 

Looking at the riverside, Asahina murmured softly to herself, "This is the first time I've had a 
walk like this!" 

"What do you mean?" 

" That is, with a guy, just the two of us " 

"That really surprises me. Could it be that you've never gone out with a guy before?" 

"No..." 

I turned towards Asahina whose soft hair was lightly fluttering in the wind and asked, "Wow! 
But there are plenty of guys who've confessed to you, right?" 

"Um..." 

Asahina shyly lowered her head. "But, it can't work. I can't involve myself in a relationship with 
anyone, at least not at this time..." 

She went quiet suddenly. As I waited for her to continue three merry couples walked by. 


"Kyon-kun..." 


I was already counting the number of leaves that had fallen on the river when Asahina called to 
me. 

Asahina looked at me abashedly, and then, bracing herself, she said, "I have something to tell 
you." 

Her round, deer-like eyes revealed her strong determination. 


We sat on a bench by the cherry blossom trees and for a long time Asahina didn't speak. She 
lowered her head and muttered, "Where should I begin? I'm not good at explaining things. 
Maybe he won't believe me." 



Finally she lifted her head and started talking in a slightly embarrassed tone. "I'm not from this 
time and age. I am a person from the future. I can't tell you when I arrived from, or from which 
temporal plane. I wouldn't be able to anyway, even if I wanted to. Conveying any information 
regarding the future with any person from the past is strictly forbidden - and that's why - before 
boarding the time machine I had to go through stringent mental conditioning. If I intended to say 
anything that shouldn't be said, my memory concerning that information would be sealed." 

Asahina took a deep breath and continued, "Unlike the water flowing in a river, every time frame 
is made up of different two-dimensional flat planes." 

"You lost me from the beginning." 

"Hmm, how about this, try to imagine it like a cartoon. When we're watching a cartoon we see 
the characters within move seamlessly but, in fact, they're all created from a series of still 
images. Similarly, time is like that, a digitized version. But if I use a series of still images as a 
description maybe you'll understand better." 

"Between one time frame and another there are so-called temporal fault lines. They do exist, 
even though the frequency of the fault lines is near zero; so, there is no continuity between 
different time frames. Time traveling is the attempt to make a three-dimensional movement 
between the two-dimensional temporal planes. For me who has arrived from the future to this 
temporal plane, it is like adding an extra object, drawn onto the still image. Even if I attempted to 
change history in this age it would not affect the future, because there is no continuity between 
the time frames. Everything would stay in this temporal plane. It's like trying to add a few words 
on a still image from hundreds of still images: the overall story wouldn't be affected, right?" 

"Time is unlike this river here: every moment belongs to a digitized temporal plane. Are you 
following me now?" 

I hesitated on whether to place my hand on my forehead, which I eventually did. Temporal 
plane, digitized. These terms don't matter to me, but, what's with the time traveling? 

Asahina glanced at the toes on her sandals and continued, "Let me tell you the reason I've come 
to this temporal plane..." 

A couple with a young child passed by us at that moment. 

"Three years ago we detected the occurrence of a huge time-quake. Hmm, it should be around 
three years before today, just when Suzumiya-san entered junior high. We were shocked when 
we traveled back to investigate, because we were unable to travel any further into the past." 

How come it's three years ago again? 

"We came to a conclusion that there exists a massive temporal fault line, but we don't know why 
it only appears at that specific time frame. It's only recently that we discovered the reason. ..sorry, 
I meant recently for the age that I came from." 



...And why is that? 


The culprit couldn't be her, could it? 

"It's because of Suzumiya-san." 

Asahina said the words I didn't want to hear. 

"She is located right at the center of the fourth dimension. Please don't ask me why, since it's 
forbidden, so I can't tell you. However, we're certain that it's Suzumiya-san who has blocked the 
passage for traveling to the past." 

"...I don't think Haruhi is capable of such a thing..." 

"Neither did I. Honestly, it's impossible for a normal human to interfere with the temporal 
planes. This is still an unsolved mystery, and Suzumiya-san herself is unaware that she is the 
source of all the temporal distortions and time-quakes. I came to Suzumiya-san's side so that I 
could closely observe any new changes to the temporal planes. ..I'm sorry, I couldn't find any 
better words to describe it, let's just say I'm in charge of surveillance." 

" "I was too speechless to respond. 

"You don't believe me, do you?" 

"No. ..right, so why are you telling me this?" 

"Because you have been chosen by Suzumiya-san." 

Asahina turned and faced me, 

"I can't go into the details. But, if I've guessed correctly, you are a very important person to 
Suzumiya-san. There is a reason for everything that she does." 

"Then Nagato-san and Koizumi are..." 

"They are similar to me, but Suzumiya-san is still unaware that she is the one who has gathered 
us to her side." 

"Then do you know what they are?" 

"That's classified information." 

"What would happen if we just leave Haruhi alone?" 


Classified information. 



"Since you're from the future, you should know what happens next, right?" 

"Classified information." 

"What if I told Haruhi all this?" 

"Classified information." 

tl ft 

"I'm sorry, I really can't tell you. Especially right now, since I don't have the right to do so." 
Asahina said with an apologetic look on her face. 

"It doesn't matter even if you don't believe me; I'd just like to let you know about this." 

I remember hearing the same things being said inside a dull, quiet apartment. 

"I'm sorry." 

Seeing that I was silent, Asahina's eyes look depressingly red. 

"I'm so sorry, for suddenly telling you all this." 

"It's okay, really " 

First there's Nagato telling me she's a Living Humanoid Interface created by aliens, now there's 
Asahina claiming she's from the future. How am I supposed to believe that? Somebody, help me! 

When I placed my hand on the bench, I accidentally touched Asahina's hand. Even though I only 
brushed her tiny fingers, Asahina retracted her fingers as fast as lightning, and lowered her head. 

We then silently stared at the river. 

Time passed by. 

"Asahina-san." 

"Yes...?" 

"Can I pretend this conversation never happened? Whether I believe you or not, let's put this 
aside for now." 

"OK." 


A smile came from Asahina's face. It was a very beautiful smile. 



"As things go, this is the best solution. Please treat me as you have always done, I'm counting on 
you." 

That said, Asahina bowed deeply to me. Hey, there's no need to go so far! 

"Can I ask you one thing?" 

"What is it?" 

"Please tell me your real age." 

"Classified information-" 

Asahina smiled naughtily. 



"Classified information 


Afterwards, we took a stroll around the streets. Despite Haruhi's pleas not to go on a date, I didn't 
intend to follow them. We went window shopping at the fashion stores in the mall, merrily ate 

some ice cream, and had a look around the souvenir stalls by the street side the typical things 

a couple would do to kill time. It would have been perfect if only we could hold each other's 
hands... 

At this moment my cell phone rang: it was Haruhi. 


We'll meet at noon, at the station where we met this morning. 



She hung up after saying that. I looked at my watch, and it was already eleven fifty. There's no 
way we're going to make it! 


"Was it Suzumiya-san? What'd she say?" 

"She said we need to meet again at noon, so we'd better hurry!" 

I grabbed Asahina's hand, knowing that we had no chance to make it by noon unless we ran, and 
we took off running towards the station. What reaction would Haruhi have, If she saw us running 
hand in hand? I wonder. I guess she'd go insane. 

"So, any results?" Haruhi questioned us, as we arrived. 

We were ten minutes late, and that was the first thing Haruhi said when she saw us. She seemed 
rather pissed. 

"Did you find anything?" 

"Nothing." 

"Did you really even look? You didn't just stroll around, did you? What about Mikuru-chan?" 
Asahina shook her head. 

"Then what have you guys found?" 

Haruhi went silent. Koizumi, standing behind her, scratched his head, while Nagato stood 
motionlessly. 

After a few moments of no one saying anything Haruhi nearly growled, "Let's have lunch first 
then we'll continue after that." 

You still want to continue!? 


As we had our lunch in a burger shop Haruhi said it was time to draw lots again, and drew out 
some extra toothpicks she'd nicked from the cafe earlier in the morning. She was really well 
prepared! 



Koizumi swiftly picked a toothpick. 


"Unmarked again." 

Such white teeth! I always get the feeling this guy is always smiling! 

"So is mine." 

Asahina showed me the toothpick she just drawn. 

"What about Kyon-kun?" 

"Sadly, mine is marked." 

Haruhi seemed to get more and more moody and rushed Nagato into drawing a toothpick. 

In the end, Nagato and I were grouped together, while the other three were in the other group. 

tt »l 

Haruhi glared at the unmarked toothpick as if staring at the person who killed her father, then 
turned towards me and Nagato, who was busy eating her cheeseburger, and scowled. 

Why are you so mad? 

"We'll meet in front of the station by four. Be sure to find something by then!" 

She finished her drink in one gulp, after saying that. 


This time we went South and North, with my group in charge of the south side. Before we 
parted, Asahina waved one of her little hands at me. It made me feel so warm! 

Now it was just me and Nagato standing idly in front of the busy station. 

"What should we do?" 

" " Nagato said nothing. 

"...Let's go." 

I strode forward, and found that she started following. It seems I'm beginning to get used to 
hanging out with her now. 



Nagato, about the stuff you told me the other day... 


"What about it?" 

"I'm starting to believe it a little." 
"Is that so?" 

"Yeah." 


So under this empty atmosphere we silently walked around the station. 
"Don't you have any casual clothing?" 


"What do you do on holidays?" 


"Are you happy now?" 


That's how our conversation went for that day. 

There was no point walking around aimlessly so I took Nagato to a new library by the seaside 
that was built at the same time the authorities developed the land for the station. I'd never been 
inside before, as I rarely borrowed any books. However, I thought I could get some rest when we 
got inside, only to discover that every seat was occupied. These people probably also have 
nowhere else to go in their free time. I glanced around the library, looking a bit lost, while 
Nagato had already drifted towards the bookshelves like she was sleep walking. Let her do what 
she likes! 

I used to read often. When I was in elementary school, my mom used to borrow illustrated books 
from the children's book section for me to read. There were all sorts of books, but I remember 
that all the ones I'd read were quite interesting. However, I can't remember any of their names 
anymore. When did I stop reading? When did reading start becoming boring for me? 

I randomly picked up a book from the bookshelf and quickly flipped through a few pages, before 
putting it back and then picking up another book. It would take me forever to find an interesting 
book in this sea of books, if I didn't do any research. Thinking like that, I wandered between the 
bookshelves, aimlessly. 



As I headed to look for Nagato, I found her reading in front of a bookshelf of thick hardback 
books. She really does love thick hardback books! 


Finally, after seeing a man reading his newspaper get up from his chair, I went and sat down, 
carrying a novel that I had randomly picked. It's impossible trying to read a book I never 
intended on reading. A while later, I found myself getting drowsy, and fell asleep. 

At that moment my hip pocket suddenly vibrated. 

"WHOA!?" 

I jumped in astonishment. When I saw everyone frowning at me, I remembered that I was in a 
library. Wiping the drool off my face I rushed out of the library and answered my cell phone, 
which was set to vibration mode. 

"You idiot! What have you been doing!?" 

A deafening sound roared through my ear. Thanks to this I awoke from my drowsiness. 

"What time do you think it is now?" 

"Sorry, I just woke up just now!" 

"What!? You dumbass!" 

You are the least qualified to call me a dumbass! 

I looked at my watch and it was past half past four. She said we were to meet at four! 

"Get your asses over here at once! I give you thirty seconds!" 

Stop making demands that are impossible to achieve! 

After Haruhi roughly hung-up the phone I placed my phone back in my pocket and returned to 
the library. There I found Nagato still standing there, reading what seemed like a thick 
encyclopedia. 

The following was a bit tricky. It took quite some time trying to move Nagato - who seemed 
rooted to the spot - and then we had to go to the counter to fill in a form to borrow the book. 
During that time I ignored all of Haruhi's phone calls. 

When we returned to the station, with Nagato carrying a thick philosophical book like a well- 
treasured item, written by some foreign author whose name was very hard to pronounce, the 
three people waiting there all had different reactions. Asahina, looking exhausted, smiled with a 
sigh of relief; Koizumi shrugged his shoulders like an idiot; while Haruhi yelled as though she'd 
just drank some cold soup. 



"You're late; pay the fine!" 

Do I have to treat you guys again? 


Finally, we ended today's outdoor activity, after wasting our time and my money. 

"I'm so tired! Suzumiya-san walked so fast that I had a tough time keeping up." Asahina told me 
as we parted, and then she whispered in my ear, "Thanks for listening to what I said today." She 
then lowered her head and smiled shyly. 

Do people from the future all smile so elegantly? 

"Then, see you!" Asahina waved goodbye and left. Koizumi softly patted my shoulder and said, 
"That was fun today! How should I say this? Suzumiya-san really is an interesting person. It's a 
pity I couldn't be with you today, perhaps next time." 

After Koizumi left with that annoying grin of his, I discovered Nagato had left already. 

That left Haruhi staring at me. 

"What have you been doing all day today?" 

"Hmm, what have I been doing today?" 

"You can't go on like that!" 

Looks like she's really pissed. 

"Oh yeah, what about you? You found anything interesting?" 

Haruhi bit her lip and said nothing. If I didn't stop her she would bite it until her lips bled. 

"Well, it's not like they'd be so careless as to let you discover them in one day." 

Seeing me trying to lighten the mood Haruhi turned her eyes away quickly. 

"We'll have a debriefing the day after tomorrow, in school." 


Haruhi turned and walked into the crowd, without looking back. 



With the thought of finally being able to go home, I returned to the bank, only to discover my 
bike was missing. Replacing it was a sign on the lamppost saying, "Your bicycle has been towed 
away as a result of illegal parking." 


Chapter 5 

Monday came, and the humidity of the rainy season made itself gradually felt at school, 
increasing to the point where we were sweating buckets. If some politician had made a campaign 
promise to install an escalator on the hill road, they'd have been assured of my vote once I 
become eligible. 

I was sitting in the classroom, fanning my neck with a pencilboard as a substitute for a fan, when 
the bell rang and Haruhi, unusually, was the last to enter. 

Throwing her bag on the desk, she said, "I'd like to be fanned, too." 

"Do it yourself!" 

Haruhi, whom I'd parted with in front of the station, two days previously, twisted her face into a 
sour look, pouting. Just when I'd thought her expressions were getting cuter these days, she'd 
reverted back to her usual scowling self today. 

"Say, Suzumiya. Do you know the story of the 'Blue Bird of Happiness'?" 

"What's that?" 

"No, never mind, it's nothing." 

"Well, then don't ask." 

Haruhi gave me a sideways scowl, then Okabe-sensei arrived and homeroom session began. 

In class that day, an aura of sullenness radiated to all sides from Haruhi's downer, emitting a 
discomforting pressure against my back. Never before had the chime at the end of the day 
sounded so comforting. Like a field mouse fleeing from a raging brush fire, I evacuated to the 
clubroom. 

The reading figure of Nagato is now the default scenery in the clubroom, to the extent that she 
seems to be a fixed ornament in the room. 

That said, I turned and said to Koizumi Itsuki, who had already arrived, 

"Don't tell me you too have something to say to me about Suzumiya?" 


It's just the three of us in this place. Haruhi has cleaning duty for today, while Asahina has yet to 
arrive. 

"Ah, judging by your reaction, I guess the other two girls have approached you already." 

Koizumi took a quick glance at Nagato, busy reading her book as usual. I found his know-it-all 
tone quite annoying. 

"Let's find another place to talk. It would be troublesome if Suzumiya-san hears us." 

Koizumi and I went to the cafeteria and sat at one of the tables. On the way, Koizumi even 
bought a cup of hot coffee for me. I know it's odd for two guys to share the same cafeteria table, 
but that can't be helped. 

"How much do you know?" 

"That Suzumiya isn't an ordinary person, I guess." 

"That makes things easy for me. You are correct." 

Was this some kind of joke? All of the other three members of the SOS Brigade have told me 
that Suzumiya isn't human. Has global warming heated their brains so much that they short- 
circuited? 

"First, tell me who you really are." 

Since one has told me she's an alien while the other a time traveler, I already had an idea, so I 
followed, 

"You're not gonna tell me that you're an esper, are you?" 

"Now there's no need to assume!" 

Koizumi shook his cup softly. 

"While not exactly accurate, you're more or less correct - 1 am what you call an esper. That's 
right, I possess paranormal powers." 

I drank my coffee in silence. Mmm, too sweet, he should've bought it with less sugar. 

"I'd have preferred not to transfer to this school so suddenly, but there has been a change in 
circumstances. I never thought those two girls would have approached Suzumiya Haruhi so 
quickly already. Before that, they had always been silently observing her." 


Stop treating Haruhi like some treasured endangered species! 



Noticing that I was frowning, he continued, 


"Now calm down. We're trying our best as well! We have no intentions of harming Suzumiya- 
san, rather, we want to protect her from danger." 

"You said we? That means there are other espers like you?" 

"Well, there aren't quite as many as you think. Since I am among the lowest-ranked, I don't really 
know much, I only know there are about ten in this world. All are under the supervision of the 
'Organization'". 

Great, now we have an 'Organization' ! 

"I do not know what the 'Organization' consists of, or how many members there are. Everything 
seems to be run by the bigwigs higher up." 

" So, this secret group, this 'Organization', what does it do anyway?" 

Koizumi wet his lips with the cooled coffee. 

"Just as you have guessed, the 'Organization' was founded three years ago, and their priority is to 
observe Suzumiya Haruhi. To put it bluntly, they exist solely to observe Suzumiya Haruhi. I'm 
sure you understand by now? I'm not the only 'Organization' member here in this school. There 
have already been a number who have infiltrated here before me; I've just been temporarily 
transferred here to assist them." 

I suddenly thought of Taniguchi's face. He said he's been in the same class as Haruhi since junior 
high. Could he be an esper like Koizumi as well? 

"You're joking, right?" 

Koizumi pretended not to hear that and continued, 

"However, I can't guarantee that they're all on Suzumiya-san's side." 

Why does everyone like Haruhi? She's just an eccentric, crazy girl that creates trouble for other 
people, not to mention, she's extremely self-centered. Is she really worth having an 'Organization' 
using all its resources to protect? Though I must admit she is attractive in looks. 

"I don't know what really happened three years ago. All I do know is, I suddenly realized I 
possessed paranormal powers one day three years ago. I was really scared, I didn't know what to 
do. Luckily for me, it wasn't long before the 'Organization' took me in, or I would've killed 
myself thinking something is wrong with my brain." 

I had already been thinking something must be wrong with your brain ever since that time. 



"Well, that's not impossible. Though we're more afraid of the terrible unforeseeable possibilities 
that exist." 


Smiling at his own flaws, Koizumi sipped his cup of coffee, and then started giving me a serious 
look. 

"When do you think this world began its existence?" 

He asked quite a shocking question all of a sudden. 

"Didn't it begin at the Big Bang?" 

"Right now that's what's being said. However, for us there is another possibility - this world 
came into being three years ago." 

I looked at Koizumi's face again and again. What he was saying was too absurd to be true. 

"That's impossible! I can still clearly remember what happened three years ago. Besides, my 
parents are still alive. I still have the three stitches I got from falling into a drain when I was 
young. And how do you explain all the stuff that I've been memorizing like hell from the history 
textbooks?" 

"OK, then how can you be sure that all humans, including you, are not created with their earlier 
memories? If that's the case, then there's no need to dwell on three years ago. There is no 
evidence in this world to disprove that the world didn't begin five minutes ago, and that all life 
began there." 


"For example, try to imagine a virtual reality. Your brain has been plugged by electric wires, 
everything that you see, smell and even touch are actually all transmitted by the electric signals 
from the wires to your brain, yet you yourself believe that what you're experiencing is real. This 
so called real world is actually surprisingly fragile." 

" Let's say I agree with what you said, it doesn't matter whether the Earth was formed three 

years ago or five minutes ago. The thing is, what does your 'Organization's' existence have to do 
with Haruhi?" 

"The leader of the 'Organization' believes that this world is really a person's dream. We, no, it 
should be the whole world itself is all but a dream. Because it's just a dream, for that person, to 
create and alter this reality we're in is as simple as clockwork. And we all know who this person 


Perhaps it's his referential use of words, but Koizumi's face looks surprisingly mature. 
"Humans have called those who can create and destroy the world at will as God." 



Hey, Haruhi! You've become a god already, oh my god! (Pun intended.) 


"That's why the 'Organization' has always been very careful. If God becomes displeased with this 
world, she could just completely destroy the old world and replace it with a new one. Just like a 
kid who doesn't like his sandcastle and decides to demolish it and build a new one. Even though I 
feel there are numerous unresolved conflicts in this world, there's still some good in this world 
that makes it worth living in. This is why I've assisted the 'Organization' in protecting this 
world." 

"Why don't you just go and directly ask Haruhi? Tell her to stop destroying this world, she might 
even listen." 

"Of course, Suzumiya-san doesn't know that, she's not aware of her own powers. Our job is to 
make sure she never does, and lives her life peacefully." 

Koizumi began smiling once again after saying all that. 

"As of right now, she's still an incomplete god, unable to completely control the world at will. 
Even though she hasn't completely evolved, we've already seen some signs of it." 

"How do you know?" 

"Think about it, why would espers like me, as well as people like Asahina Mikuru and Nagato 
Yuki exist? It is because Suzumiya-san wishes for it." 

If anyone here is an alien, a time traveler, slider, or an esper, then come find me! 

I instantly remembered Haruhi's self introduction at the beginning of the semester. 

"Since she hasn't discovered them yet, she is unable to completely utilize her powers, she could 
only subconsciously release them randomly. Yet for the past few months, Suzumiya-san has 
continuously released powers far beyond what humans can comprehend. As you well know, this 
resulted in Suzumiya-san having Asahina Mikuru, Nagato Yuki and even me joining her club." 

Does that make me the sole outsider? 

"Not quite. For us, you're a mysterious presence. I've done quite a lot of background checks on 
you, I hope you don't mind. And I can assure you, you are just a normal human being without 
any special powers." 

Should I take that as a compliment or should I be disappointed? 

"I don't know either, but the fate of the world could very well rest in your hands. Therefore, you 
need to be careful not to let Suzumiya-san feel any despair for this world." 



"Since you think Haruhi is God," I suggested, "Why don't you just abduct her, perform an 
autopsy on her and see what her brain's made of? You might even learn the secrets of the 
universe ! " 

"There do exist some extremists within the 'Organization' who believe the same way as you do." 
Koizumi nodded while adding, 

"Yet the majority still think it best to leave her alone. After all, if God becomes unhappy because 
of this, a catastrophe would most likely occur. We hope for the world to remain as it is, so 
naturally we hope that Suzumiya-san can live peacefully. We have nothing to gain if disaster 
does strike " 

" Then what should we do?" 

"That I do not know." 

"Oh yeah, what would happen to the world if Haruhi suddenly dies?" 

"Would the world be destroyed alongside her death? Or would God simply cease to exist? Or a 
new one would simply come to replace her? Before that happens no one really knows." 

The coffee in the paper cup had become cold. I shoved it aside as I didn't want to drink anymore. 

"You said you possess paranormal powers?" 

"Well, that's not quite precise, but more or less you're correct." 

"Then show me some of your powers, then I'll believe you. Let's say, make this coffee warm 
again." 

Koizumi smiled cheerfully. This is the first time I've seen him truly smile. 

"I'm sorry, I can't do that. My powers aren't that easily comprehensible. Under normal 
conditions, I don't have any particular powers. I have to satisfy a certain number of conditions 
before I can use them, but I believe you'll get the chance to see them one day." 

"Sorry I've taken your time, I guess I'll go home now." After saying that, Koizumi left with a 
smile. 

I watched Koizumi stroll away until he disappeared, then I thought of grabbing the paper cup. 


Just as I thought, the coffee's still cold. 



When I returned to the club room, I stumbled upon Asahina standing inside in her bra and 
panties. 


ft 


ft 


Asahina, with the maid costume in her hands, stood with her eyes wide open, looking at me 
frozen to the spot with my hand on the door knob. Slowly her mouth started to open as she 
prepared to scream. 

"I’m sorry." 

Before she had the chance to yell, I pulled out the foot that was in the room and shut the door 
quickly. Thanks to that, I was able to avoid her screaming. 

Really, I ought to knock first. No wait, she ought to lock the door if she wanted to change! 

Just as I was wondering whether to store that image of her smooth white half-naked body into 
my long-term memory banks, a soft knock came from the other side of the door, "You can enter 
now " 

"Sorry about that." 

"It doesn't matter " 

I looked at Asahina's lowered head as she opened the door and apologized. She blushed and said, 

"Sorry, I always show my embarrassing side " 

I don't really mind at all actually. 

She's really quite an obedient girl, wearing her maid costume as Haruhi told her to. 

She's just too cute! 

I was afraid if I continued to stare at Asahina like that, the image I had just received would begin 
to tilt towards the dirty side. Mustering all the reason I had to take on those frustrating desires, I 
swiftly sat in the commander's seat and turned on the computer. 

Noticing someone watching me, I lifted my head, I found Nagato Yuki actually looking at me for 
a change. She pushed her glasses up slightly, then returned to her book. Her moves are quite 
human. 



I opened the net browser and went to the club homepage, trying to edit something out of the ever 
static page, but I didn't know where to start. I used to think editing webpages was a waste of 
time, and I would close the window and sigh. Yet here I was bored as hell, I've gotten tired of 
Othello as well, I needed something to kill time. 

As I muttered under my breath with my arms crossed, suddenly someone placed a cup of warm 
tea in front of me. I glanced upwards and found Asahina in her maid costume smiling while 
standing with a tray in her hands. She's completely like a real maid. 

"Thanks." 

I just got treated to a cup of hot coffee by Koizumi, but I still gladly accepted this cup of warm 
tea. 

Asahina then placed another cup by Nagato's side, she then sat beside her and silently sipped her 
own cup of tea. 


In the end, Haruhi never came to the club room that day. 


"Why didn't you come yesterday? Didn't you want to hold a debriefing?" 

As usual, I turned and spoke to Haruhi behind me before the homeroom session. 

Lying flat on the desk, with her chin on the surface, Haruhi said with an annoyed look, 

"You're annoying! I've already had the debriefing on my own yesterday already!" 

I knew right away that Haruhi must have retraced the places she went last Saturday after school. 

"I was afraid I might have missed something, so I thought it safer to go through the places 
again." 

I'd always thought it was only detectives who believed criminals would return to the scene of 
crime, but I was wrong. 

"It's hot as hell! When is the school gonna switch uniforms? I want to wear short sleeves!" 


They don't change seasons till June, and there's only one week left till May finishes. 



"Suzumiya, maybe I've said this before, but I think you'd better stop looking for those mysterious 
events, and try to live a normal high school life." 


She would lift her head and scowl at me I was anticipating that kind of reaction, yet Haruhi's 

head remained stuck on the desk. It seems she's really exhausted. 

"A normal high school life? What kind of life is that?" 

She doesn't sound interested at all. 

"Something like finding a decent boyfriend. You might even stumble upon an alien while you're 
dating. That'll be two birds with one stone, that's not too bad right?" 

I started thinking about Asahina's conversation with me that day while making such a suggestion. 

"Besides, there are plenty of guys lining up for you. All you need is to hold back that eccentric 
behavior of yours and your boyfriend will arrive." 

"Hmph, it doesn't matter if I have a boyfriend or not! All this so called love is just a temporary 
confusion of the mind, a mental illness." 

Haruhi said exhaustedly while lying on the desk and looking out the window. 

"Actually, I do tend to think about this stuff from time to time. I am an energetic girl after all, 
plus my body has its needs. But I'm not dumb enough to take on this troublesome stuff just 
because of a short moment of confusion. And if I'm too busy dating, what happens to the SOS 
Brigade? I just founded it!" 

Technically it's not founded yet. 

"Then why not create a club that involves some form of entertainment? That would attract more 
members for sure." 

"No." 

Haruhi flatly refused. 

"I founded the SOS Brigade because all the other normal clubs were too boring, and I've 
recruited a cute girl like Asahina and a mysterious transfer student as well! Why hasn't anything 
happened yet? Sigh, it's about time something strange happened." 

This is the first time I've seen Haruhi this depressed, but she's cute like that too. For a cute girl 
like her, she's pretty enough even when she's not smiling, it's such a pity, the more I think about 
it. 



Haruhi spent the rest of the day sleeping soundly. What's amazing is, the teachers never 
noticed No, this has to be a coincidence. 


Yet from this moment, strange things were quietly beginning. Since it wasn't a big deal at the 
beginning, no one else had noticed yet, but I'd been thinking about it all day ever since 
homeroom session. 

While I was speaking to Haruhi, my mind was dwelling on something else. It all began with a 
note that was left in my shoe locker this morning. 

The note said, 

"After school when everyone else has left, come to the 1-5 classroom." 

It was obviously a girl's handwriting. 


What is this all about? An emergency conference was held in my mind between my differing 
opinions. 

The first said, "this has happened before," but the handwriting was different from the one on the 
bookmark. Nagato, who claims to be a Living Humanoid Interface for the aliens, has 
handwriting so beautiful it's as though it's printed, yet this note gives the impression of a high 
school girl's handwriting. Besides, Nagato would not be so direct as to stick a note in my shoe 
locker. 

The second said, "could it be Asahina?" No, if it's Asahina, she wouldn't just randomly tear a 
piece of paper and scribble down a note without writing any time on it. That's right, she would 
have placed her well-written letter into an envelope. 

Moreover, it was strange that the location is in my classroom. "It can't be Haruhi!?" said the third 
opinion. That's even more impossible, if it were her, she would have just dragged me to the 
staircase and told me right away if she wanted me to know something. 

Based on the same reasoning, I eliminated Koizumi from the equation as well. Finally, a fourth 
opinion said, "Could it be a love letter from some stranger?" Let's not worry ourselves whether 
this is a love letter or not, the thing is I'm being called out by someone, and it doesn't even have 
to be a girl. 



"Don't fall for it! It's most likely a prank by Taniguchi and Kunikida." Yes, that's the most 
plausible opinion. It's possible that that idiot Taniguchi would play such senseless pranks, but he 
should've written more. 

I walked aimlessly around school while thinking about all these. After class, Haruhi said she was 
sick and went home. This is a great chance! 

I decided to go to the club room first. I'd go crazy if I went too early to the classroom to wait for 
some unknown stranger. Plus, if all of a sudden Taniguchi suddenly came in and said, "Yo, you 
still waiting? I can't believe you'd fall for such a small note, how innocent you are!" I'd be 
mightily pissed. Kill some time first, go and have a peek in the classroom, and then go in after 
making sure no one is around. Yes, this is the perfect strategy! 

I arrived at the club room entrance on my own. This time I remembered to knock. 

"Please come in." 

Once I confirmed it was Asahina's voice, I opened the door. No matter how many times I look at 
it, Asahina just looks so adorable in her maid costume! 

"Took you awhile to arrive, where's Suzumiya-san?" 

Looks like she's brewing tea again. 

"She went home, she seems really tired. If you want to exact revenge, now's the chance, right 
now she seems very weak. " 

"I'm not going to do any such thing!" 

We sat face to face and drank our tea in the room with Nagato reading. We seem to have reverted 
back to the same aimless association as before. 

"Koizumi still hasn't arrived?" 

"Koizumi-kun came earlier, he said he's got part-time work today, so he went off first." 

What kind of part-time work? But as things stand, I can now confidently cross out Koizumi and 
Haruhi from my suspect list on who wrote the note. 

Since we didn't have anything to do, I played some Othello with Asahina and chatted with her. 
After winning three games, we stopped playing and went to surf the internet to read the news, 
and at this moment, Nagato closed her book. Recently, we've taken this action of hers as a sign 
that it's time to call it a day for club activities (though we don't know what activities there are), 
and we all began to pack and leave. 


I need to change, so you go on first." Hearing Asahina say that, I rushed out of the club room. 



The clock pointed to half past five, there shouldn't be anyone left in the classroom, I guess? Even 
if it were a prank by Taniguchi, he would have gone home after getting bored from waiting so 
long. Despite that, I still ran up the two flights of stairs to the top floor, just to make sure. 

I breathed deeply in the silent corridor. Since the classroom windows are all stained, there's no 
way I'd be able to see what's going on inside, just that the sunset has colored the room orange- 
red. I casually opened the 1-5 classroom door and stuck my head inside. 


I wasn't at all surprised that someone was waiting inside the classroom, but I was shocked when I 
found out who it was. Standing in front of the blackboard is a person who I would not have 
thought of at all. 

"You're late." 

Asakura Ryouko smiled. 

She flicked her silky long hair and started walking down the aisle. Her smooth thighs under her 
folded skirt and her white indoor shoes are really distracting. 

She stopped in the center of the classroom, and waved towards me with a smile. 

"Come in!" 

As though I were being sucked in, her action caused me to let go of the door handle and walk 
towards her. 

"So it's you " 

"Yes, surprised?" 

Asakura smiled happily, the right side of her face is red from the sunset shining in. 

"You looking for me?" 

I intentionally asked in a rough tone, Asakura giggled and replied, 

"Indeed I was looking for you, I have something to ask you." 

Asakura' s white face now turns towards me. 


"Have you heard of the saying 'It is better to do it and regret than not do it at all'? You think that 
makes sense?" 



"I'm not really sure who said that, but I guess the meaning makes sense. 


"If there exists a situation where staying in the status quo would make things worse, and you 
have no idea how to improve it, what would you do?" 

"Improve on what? The economy?" 

Ignoring my question, Asakura smiled and continued, 

"Wouldn't you have said that you should do it first and face the consequences later? Since 
nothing is going to change if things continue like this." 

"Hmm, I guess so." 

"That's what I meant." 

Asakura, who had her hands behind her back, leaned slightly forward. 

"However, since those above are incapable of thinking laterally, they are out of touch with the 
rapid changes in this reality, I'm compelled to do something in order to make things run 
smoothly. That's why, being in this reality, I have decided to act on my own and forcefully make 
some changes." 

What on Earth are you trying to say? Is this some sort of prank? I looked around the room, 
wondering whether Taniguchi is hiding in the cabinet holding the sweeping tools behind, or 
whether he's sitting under the teacher's desk. 

"I've grown tired of having to observe a changeless environment, that's why " 

I was so busy looking around that I didn't really hear what Asakura was saying. 

"I have to kill you, and see what sort of reaction Suzumiya Haruhi would have." 

In an instant, Asakura flashed her right hand, a white metallic flash went past where my neck 
used to be. 

Smiling pleasantly, Asakura's right hand now revealed a knife as sharp as an army knife. 

I was very lucky to dodge the first strike. Because right now I'm on the ground on my backside, 
looking palely at Asakura. If I'm trapped, I won 't be able to escape! This thought flashed through 
my mind, and I crawled backwards like a locust. 

Why didn't Asakura give chase? 

No, wait! What on Earth's going on? Why is Asakura trying to stab me with a knife? Wait a 

second, what did Asakura just say? She wants to kill me? Kill me? But, why!? 



"Stop joking around!" 

I could only say this trademark sentence of mine. 

"That was really dangerous! Even if that were a fake knife, I would be scared as well! Put that 
thing away!" 

I was really confounded. If someone knows what's going on, please come out and explain to me! 

"You think I'm joking?" Asakura said in a very cheerful tone, not sounding very serious at all. 
Now that I think about it, a high school girl smiling while threatening your life with a knife is 
really scary. So now you know how frightened I was. 

"Hmph!" 

Asakura patted her shoulder with the back of the knife blade. 

"You don't like dying? You don't want to die? The death of organic entities means nothing to 
me." 

I slowly stand up. This has to be a joke, I'm only scared because I'm too serious. I kept on telling 
myself this, because it was just too surreal. Asakura is the serious responsible class monitor, who 
would only talk when necessary in class, and wouldn't go nuts even when faced with a problem. 
Why would she carry a knife and say she wants to kill me all of a sudden? 

Yet that knife is real, if I wasn't careful I would be bleeding all over the place. 

"I don't get what you're saying. This isn't funny anymore, OK? Put that scary thing away!" 

"I can't do that," Asakura smiled her usual innocent smile, "Because I really want you dead." 

She held her knife by her waist, and started rushing towards me. She's fast! This time I was 
prepared, because long before Asakura made her move, I had set sights on escaping through the 
door - yet I ended up hitting a wall. 

???? 

That's strange, where'd the door go? Even the windows are gone! There were supposed to be 
windows on the wall facing the corridor, now it's just a thick grey wall. 

Impossible! 

"It's useless." 


Asakura's voice grew closer from behind. 



"I now have control of this area of space, so all exits have been blocked. It's quite easy actually, 
all I needed to do was tamper with the molecular structure of the buildings on this planet and I 
can change its matter at will. This room has now become a sealed room, and there's no way in or 
out now." 

I turned around and noticed that the sunset has gone as well. The whole room is surrounded by 
concrete walls, leaving only the white lamps shining coldy on the desks. 

This can't be! 

Asakura's silhouette moved slowly towards me. 

"I advise you to stop resisting; you're going to die, anyway." 

" Who exactly are you?" 

No matter how I looked, there were walls around me. There's not a single door, a single window, 
nothing! Is something wrong with my brain? 

I frantically moved between the desks, trying to get as far from Asakura as possible. Yet Asakura 
walked towards me in a straight line, moving the desks and chairs from her path at will. 
Compared to her, my path was always blocked by the desks. 

This cat and mouse chase didn't last long, and eventually I was cornered. 

If that's the case 

I decided to take a risk and threw a chair at Asakura, yet the chair turned in the air right in front 
of Asakura, and flew off to the other end of the room. How can this be possible!? 

"Didn't I tell you it's useless? Everything in this room now moves according to my will." 

Wait... Wait! 

What is going on here? If this isn't a joke or a prank, and neither me nor Asakura were crazy, 
then what is going on? 


I have to kill you, and see what sort of reaction Suzumiya Haruhi would have. 




Ryouko: "I have to kill you, and see what sort of reaction Suzumiya Haruhi would have. " 

Why is it Haruhi again? Haruhi, my, aren't you getting a bit too popular? 

"I should've done this from the beginning." 

My body froze after Asakura said that. You can't do that! That's cheating! 

My feet are rooted to the ground like a tree, unable to move. My arms are fixed like a wax statue 
- 1 can't even move my fingers. My face, stuck pointing towards the ground, could see Asakura's 
indoor shoes slowly entering my field of vision. 

"Once you die, Suzumiya Haruhi is bound to have some sort of reaction. This might create a 
massive data explosion from which we could salvage something. This could be the chance in a 
lifetime for us." 

I don't really care about that! 

"Now die." 

I could feel Asakura lifting her knife up. Where would she start? The throat arteries, heart? If I 

knew how I was going to die, I could at least be prepared. At least let me close my eyes No, I 

can't do that. W... what's this!? 

I suddenly felt the air shake. The knife began to fall upon me 

At this moment, the ceiling gave out a loud cracking noise, followed by debris falling down. 
Some of which fell on my head - that hurts! Dammit! I was covered in white dust by the large 



amount of continuously falling debris, so I guess Asakura is covered in white as well. I wanted to 
see what she looked like now, but I couldn't move no, wait! I can move again! 


I lifted my head and discovered ! 

A shocked Asakura - just as she's about to slice my neck. Standing in front, catching the blade 
with her bare hands, is the slim figure of Nagato Yuki. 

(Wow, she can catch the blade with just her bare hands.) 

"Your programs are too basic." Nagato said in her usual expressionless tone, 

"The data lockdown around the ceiling area was incomplete. That is why I was able to discover it 
and enter. " 

"You want to get in my way?" Asakura sounded calm. "Once I kill this person, Suzumiya Haruhi 
is bound to have some sort of reaction. Only then can we obtain more data." 

"You are supposed to be my backup." Nagato said in a mantra-like tone, "This sort of 
insubordination is forbidden; you must obey my commands." 

"What if I refuse?" 

"Then I will disconnect your data interface." 

"Would you like to try? I have the advantage here, since this classroom belongs to the scope of 
my data control." 

"Processing application for data interface disconnection." 

As Nagato finished, the knife in her hand started glowing brightly. Then, like the sugar cube 
being placed into a cup of tea, it slowly crystallized and dissolved and fell towards the floor like 
powder. 

"!!" 

Asakura released the knife and jumped five meters away. Seeing this scene, I couldn't help but 
realize - whoa, these two really aren't human. 

Opening up the distance in an instant, Asakura landed elegantly and continued smiling as usual. 

The space around began to distort - 1 can only describe it as such. Asakura, the desks, the ceiling 
and floor all shook vigorously; overall, it had the appearance of what seemed like liquid metal, 
though I couldn't really see that clearly. 



Just as I was wondering how it's just this space that's slowly being turned into what seemed like 
spears, a crystallized explosion occurred in front of Nagato's raised palms. 

The next second, there were continuous crystallized explosions around Nagato, followed by 
powder dropping onto the ground. The crystallized spear-like objects flew from all directions 
towards us with lightning fast speed. It was already a moment later when I discovered Nagato 
facing those spears with the same speed. 

"Do not move away." 

Nagato dodged Asakura's attacks while pulling my tie so that I would kneel and hide behind her. 
"Whoa!" 

An unknown object flew over my head and smashed the blackboard to pieces. 

Nagato looked upwards a little, and in an instant many icicles grew from the ceiling and fell on 
Asakura's head. Asakura moved away with a speed that couldn't be seen with the naked eye, and 
instantly an icicle forest formed from the ground. 

"There's no way you can beat me in this area of space." Asakura said calmly. She and Nagato 
stood a few meters apart, facing each other, while I could only kneel on the ground hopelessly, 
not daring to stand up. 

Nagato stood in front of me with her legs slightly opened, and it's only now that I notice she's so 
serious that she even wrote her own name on her indoor shoes. Then, as if chanting a prayer, 
Nagato mumbled softly, 

SELECT serial_code 
FROM database 
WHERE code='data' 

ORDER BY aggressive_combat_data 
HAVING terminate_mode 

"Target name Asakura Ryoko, hostility confirmed. Disconnecting target's organic information 
interface." 

Normal space no longer exists in the classroom. Everything has turned into geometric shapes, 
appearing twisted or cone-like. Seeing this surreal scenery is like entering one of those theme 
park house of horrors, I'm getting dizzy already from watching. 

"You would stop functioning before I would." 

I have no idea where Asakura's voice is coming from in all this colorful mirage. 

Whoosh, the sound of the wind slicing through the air. 



Nagato kicked me hard with the back of her heel. 


"What are you " 

Before I could finish, there was a spear so fast, I could just barely see it as it went past the tip of 
my nose and fell on the ground. 

"We'll see how much longer you can protect him. Try this!" 

The next second, Nagato stood in front of me, impaled by about twelve brownish looking long 
spears. 


In other words, Asakura attacked Nagato and me from all directions at the same time. Nagato 
managed to crystallize some of the spears and smash them, but trying to prevent me from getting 
hit by the remaining spears, she'd shielded me with her body. But I didn't know that then, since it 
all happened so quickly. 

Nagato's glasses fell from her face and softly bounced as they hit the ground. 

"NAGATO!" 

"You should not move." Nagato said calmly, pointing to the spears stuck on her chest and 
stomach. A pool of blood began to form under her feet. 

"I'm fine." 

God, how can this be fine? 

Nagato pulled out the spears from her body without even flinching once. The bloody spears fell 
onto the ground with an icy sound, and instantly turned into a desk. So that's what the spears are 
made from! 

"Being this injured, I don't suppose you can stop me now. Here's the finishing blow!" 

At the other end of the twisted space, Asakura's silhouette faded in and out. I could see a smile 
from her face, she then slowly raised her hands - if I'm not mistaken, her arms glowed all the 
way from her fingertips, and then extended to twice as long. No, not just twice as long... 

"Please die!" 

Asakura's arms kept on extending, wriggling like a bunch of tentacles, and then closing in from 

both directions. Unable to move, Nagato's small figure shook violently The next instant, my 

face was splattered with blood. 



Asakura's left arm clawed into Nagato's right abdomen, while her right arm clawed into Nagato's 
left chest, piercing through her back and stopping at the classroom wall. Blood spattered from 
Nagato's mouth and down along her white legs, making the blood pool below even wider. 

"It's over." Nagato said softly, then grabbed onto the tentacles. Nothing happened. 

"What's over?" Asakura said, sounding as though she'd won. "You mean your three years of 
life?" 

"No." said a seriously wounded Nagato, as though nothing had happened to her. "Commencing 
data interface disconnection." 

Almost instantly, everything in the classroom began glowing brightly, and then crystallized and 
dissolved within the next second, the desk beside me also turned into sand and collapsed. 

"How can this be " 

Crystallized sand fell from the ceiling nonstop, this time it is Asakura's turn to be stunned. 

"You truly are outstanding." 

The spears within Nagato's body also turned into sand. 

"It took me some time to penetrate the program. But, everything will end now." 

" You've already planted destructive factors around long before I penetrated this place, 

haven't you? No wonder you looked rather weak. It was because you've used attacking data 
beforehand " Asakura said despondently as her arms began to crystallize. 

"Sigh, it's such a pity, after all I'm just backup. I thought this would be a chance to break free 
from this deadlock." 

Asakura reverted back to her normal classmate self and looked at me cheerfully. 

"I lost. It's great that you can survive. But you'd better be careful, the Integrated Data Entity isn't 
as united as you think, there are quite a number like me with dissenting opinions. It's just like 
humans, there will be extremists like me next time. And who knows, even those who control 
Nagato-san might change their thinking and turn to kill you instead." 

She's now covered from chest to toe by the glowing crystallized substance. 

"Before that happens, I wish you and Suzumiya-san the best of luck. Farewell." 


Saying that, Asakura silently dissolved into small sandy dunes. And then, the smaller crystallized 
sand dunes continued to dissolve until they completely vanished. 



Under a rain of crystallized sand, the high school girl known as Asakura Ryouko vanished 
completely from this school. 

There was a loud thud, suddenly. I was quick to find Nagato lying on the floor, so I frantically 
got up. 

"Nagato! Hang in there! I'll call the ambulance!" 

"There is no need." 

Nagato glanced at the ceiling with her wide open eyes. 

"Physical damage doesn't mean anything to me. Our priority is to restore this area of space back 
to its original state." 

The sand crystals around stopped falling. 

"Removing impure substances, reconstructing classroom." 

As she finished, the familiar 1-5 classroom reappeared before our eyes. It was like a tape 
rewinding: everything in the room reverted to the way it had been before. 

The blackboard, the teacher's desk, the remaining chairs and desks all grew from the white sand 
and back to their original form as I had seen before school ended today. I can't describe what was 
going through my mind then. If I had not seen it with my own eyes, I would've thought all these 
images were made with state-of-the-art CG special effects. 

Windows grew from the walls, with the half-stained glasses intact; the sunset reappeared outside, 
bathing me and Nagato in an orange-red light. I tried looking inside my desk drawers, all the 
contents were still there intact, and all the blood that had spattered onto my face had now 
completely disappeared. This was too amazing. I could only describe it as magic! 

"Are you really okay?" 

I knelt beside Nagato who remained lying on the floor. I had thought she would have many 
wounds and holes in her uniform after being impaled by those spears, but they were all gone 
now. 

"As processing power has been converted into data operation, I have just reversed the linking 
interface for a bit." 

"You need me to pick you up?" 

Surprisingly, Nagato didn't hesitate and grabbed my hand, just as she was about to stand up - 


Oh! 



She gasped suddenly. 

"I forgot to regenerate a new pair of glasses." 

" I actually think you look cuter without glasses. Four-eyed girls are not really my type." 

"What does 'Four-eyed girls' mean?" 

"It's nothing, just some stupid comment." 

"I see." 

Now is not the time to say such trivial things. I regret having said that. Even if it meant leaving 
Nagato behind heartlessly, I should've run out of the classroom at once in embarrassment. 

"Yo!" 

The classroom door suddenly opened. 

"I forgot- I forgot my stuff-" 

Damn, there entering the classroom, humming a stupid song, was Taniguchi. 

Taniguchi probably never thought there would still be people in the classroom. When he 
discovered us, he stood dumbfounded with his mouth wide open like an idiot. 

At that moment, I was trying to carry Nagato, but if you had only seen us then, it would have 
looked like I was slowly laying her down. 

"I'm so sorry." Taniguchi said in a serious tone that I had never heard from him before, and fled 
the classroom at once. I didn't even have time to chase him. 

"Such an interesting person." Nagato said. 

I sighed heavily. 

"What should we do now?" 

"Leave it to me." Nagato said while resting on my chest. 

"Data manipulation is my specialty, I'll let everyone think that Asakura Ryouko has been 
transferred away. " 


So that's how she does it! 



Now is not the time to think about such trivial matters when I've just experienced an incredible 
event. This is no longer an issue of whether or not I should believe what Nagato said to me the 
other day, I didn't dare admit I was half-convinced. Yet what happened just now has led me to 
realize how serious things really were. I really thought I was going to die! If Nagato hadn't 
appeared from the ceiling, I would have been killed by Asakura. The experiences of seeing the 
classroom distorting, of Asakura's arms extending unnaturally, and Nagato eliminating her 
emotionlessly have all been etched into my mind. 

Is Nagato trying to use this to tell me she really is an alien? 

In a way, doesn't that make me an insider to this mysterious event? Just as I said in the 
beginning, I had wanted to be a bystander that got sucked into these events, content with being a 
mere sidekick. But as things stood, I was already the protagonist! That's right, I had really 
wished I was a character in a story involving aliens, but when I'd really become one, it put 
everything into perspective. 

To be honest, I'm quite troubled by it. 

What I really want is to be the sort of side character that cheerfully provides helpful advice at the 
right moment when everyone is facing a difficult situation. I don't want to have my life targeted 
by my own classmates! I do have my principles when it comes to my life. 

My mind wandered aimlessly for some time as I sat in the orange -red classroom. I'd completely 
forgotten that Nagato was still resting on my chest. 

W what's all this? What was I thinking? Thanks to my spacing out all this time, I didn't notice 

that Nagato had completed her regeneration and has been staring at me expressionlessly for some 
time already. 


The following day, Asakura Ryouko disappeared from class. 

This outcome was inevitable, but I was the only one who thought like that. 

"Hmm, I guess it has something to do with Asakura-kun's father's work, that's why she had to 
transfer all of a sudden. To be frank, the teachers were shocked as well when they heard the news 
this morning. Because they had to leave the country, they already flew off yesterday." 

When Okabe-sensei announced this cover story, most of the girls exclaimed in shock, "What?", 
"Why?", while the guys also talked amongst themselves about this. Even the teacher had a look 
of bewilderment. Not surprisingly, the girl behind me could not be silent about this. 


Smack! She smacked the back of my head with her fist. 



"Kyon, this HAS to be a mysterious event!" Haruhi's eyes shone brightly as she regained her 
usual vigor. 


What should I do? Tell her the truth? 

Actually, Asakura-san was created by an unknown entity known as the Integrated Data Sentient 
Entity, Nagato-san is also her companion, but for some reason their relationship broke down, and 
in the end Asakura-san had to resort to killing me. As to why it involves me, the reason is 
actually you. However, Asakura-san got turned into a pile of sand by Nagato-san and 
disappeared. 

Oh please! I'd be ridiculed like hell if I said that, and I don't feel like saying it. I'll just pretend 
that everything that happened yesterday was just an illusion and leave it as that. 

"First a mysterious transfer student coming in, then a girl transferring out mysteriously. There 
has to be something fishy going on!" 

Should I commend her on her brilliant instincts? 

"Maybe her dad got a transfer?" 

"I'm not buying such a lame excuse." 

"Believe it or not, that's the number one reason for having to transfer schools." 

"But don't you find it strange? It took them only one day from receiving the job transfer notice to 
moving out. Just what sort of work is her dad doing?" 

"Maybe Asakura's dad didn't tell her beforehand " 

"That's impossible. This requires further investigation." 

I had wanted to say the job transfer was just an excuse, they had escaped overnight from their 
debtors after leaving behind a mountain of debt, but I decided not to. Since the person who knew 
the real reason was me. 

"As a member of the SOS Brigade, I can't leave such a mysterious event lying around 
unnoticed." 

Please stop! 

After what happened yesterday, I had a complete changeover overnight. After all, having 
witnessed all this supernatural stuff firsthand, and trying to tell myself that it never happened, I 
had to pick one of the following choices: I was either hallucinating; or something was wrong 
with my brain; or the world is strange enough already; or I'd had a very long dream. 



Besides, I could never admit that the world itself is a virtual reality. 

Man! For someone who's just turned 15, having to face a turning point in his life is just a bit too 
early! 

Why does a first year high schooler like me have to deal with such philosophical questions like 
whether the world exists or not? Those aren't things I should be thinking about. Please, don't add 
to my troubles anymore. 

Right now I have a whole lot of tricky issues to deal with ! 


Chapter 6 

As with yesterday, today I found yet another letter inside my shoe locker. What's with people 
delivering letters through shoe lockers these days? 

It had a different feeling this time, however. The letter wasn't folded and anonymous like last 
time. On the back of the envelope, which looked like one of those elegant envelopes that come 
with the shoujo-manga magazines for questionnaires and the sort, was clearly written a name. If 
my eyes didn't deceive me, I was sure whose name was written on it. 

Asahina Mikuru. 

I instantly placed the envelope into the pocket of my jacket, and rushed to the men's room to 
open it. There, on a piece of paper with smiley symbols all over it, were written the following 
words. 

I will be waiting for you in the club room during lunch break. 

Mikuru-chan 

After the events yesterday, my whole view on life, the world and reality itself went through a 
360 degree somersault like an acrobat. 

I never want to go through such life-threatening situations again. 

Yet I couldn't turn this down. After all, it's Asahina who'd invited me this time! Though I had no 
evidence to prove that this letter had been written by Asahina, I never doubted its authenticity, 
because she seemed like the sort to go through such indirect means. Furthermore, the image of 
her clutching her pen while writing excitedly on a cute piece of paper really suits her. If it's 
during lunch, Nagato should be in the club room as well, should anything really happen, I guess 
she'd come rescue me. 

Please don't call me a hopeless coward. I'm just a normal high school student, after all. 


After the fourth session, I was surrounded by: Taniguchi, staring at me with meaningful eyes; 
Kunikida, coming over with his lunchbox, trying to invite me to have lunch together; and Haruhi, 
asking that I go with her to the staff room to investigate the truth of Asakura's departure. Without 
even having eaten from my lunchbox, I left at once for the club room. 

It was only May, yet the sun was already shining with the brightness of summer. The sun is like 
an extra large fireplace, happily radiating its energy towards the Earth. When summer finally 
comes, Japan becomes a natural sauna. I could feel the sweat creeping into my underwear just 
from walking a few steps. 

In three minutes, I arrived at the club room door. I knocked first. 

"Please come in." 

It was Asahina's voice, there was no doubt about it. Alright, I could relax and go in! 

When I entered, I found Nagato missing, and to my surprise, so was Asahina. 

In front of me stood a long-haired girl leaning by the window ledge facing the school courtyard. 
She wore a white blouse and a black mini-skirt, while her feet sported a pair of slippers made for 
school visitors. 

When she saw me, she walked towards me delightedly and took my hands. 

"Kyon-kun it's been a while." 

She was not Asahina, yet she resembled Asahina a lot, so much that one would easily mistake 
her for Asahina herself. To be honest, even I would have thought she was Asahina. 

Yet she wasn't Asahina. The Asahina I knew wasn't that tall, and her face wasn't that fully 
grown, not to mention the breasts under her blouse couldn't have possibly grown a third in size 
overnight. 

No matter how I looked, I was sure the person in front of me, smiling while holding my hands, is 
in her twenties, giving off a completely different feeling from the junior high schoolgirl-like 
Asahina. But why did she resemble Asahina so much? 

"Excuse me " 

I suddenly thought of a reason. 


Are you Asahina-san's sister? 



She looked surprised for a while, then smiled and winked her eyes, shaking her shoulders. Even 
her smile was the same. 

"Hee hee, I'm me!" She said. 

"I am Asahina Mikuru. Only that, I come from an even further timeline I've always wanted to 

meet you." 

I must've looked very stupid then. Indeed, I could easily accept Asahina saying she was from the 
future. Looking at the beauty standing ahead of me, I realized how beautiful she'd grown. Plus 
she's taller, making her sexier. I never thought she would be so beautiful. 

"Oh, you still don't believe me?" 

Asahina in a secretary-like outfit said naughtily, 

"Then I'll show you proof!" 

She then promptly began to unbutton her blouse. When she opened the second button, she 
revealed her bust to my astonishment. 

"Look, can you see the star-shaped birthmark? It's not stuck on! You want to touch it?" 

There was a star-shaped birthmark on her left breast, an attractive highlight on the white skin, 
radiating charm. 

"So now you believe?" 

How should I say this? I don't even remember ever seeing whether Asahina had a birthmark on 
her breast. Though I was kinda forced into seeing her change when she dressed as a bunny girl a 
while ago, I wouldn't be so focused as to notice such a small area. While I was thinking the 
above, the attractive, mature-looking Asahina said, 

"That's strange. If you hadn't told me that I had this birthmark, I wouldn't have noticed it 
myself." 

Asahina confusedly shook her head, and then, as if realizing something, her eyes widened and 
she blushed furiously. 

"Eh Oh no, I just T.. .that's right! We still haven't What should I do?" 

Asahina put her hands over her face and shook frantically, her collar buttons still opened. 


I got it wrong I. ..I'm sorry! Please forget what I just said! 



That's easier said than done. Oh and, could you please button up? I really don't know where my 
eyes ought to be aimed anymore ! 

"Alright, I'll believe you for now. Right now I can believe anything." 

"Excuse me?" 

"Oh nothing, just talking to myself." 

The unknown-aged Asahina was still holding her red face in her hands when she realized what I 
was staring at, and quickly buttoned up. After sitting properly, she coughed dryly and said, 

"Do you really believe that I've come from the future to this temporal plane?" 

"Of course. Hmm, if that's the case, that means right now there are two Asahinas in this world?" 

"Yes, the me from the past right now, she's sitting with her classmates having lunch in the 

classroom." 

"Does that Asahina know you're here?" 

"No, after all, she is my past." 

I see. 

"Since I wanted to tell you something, I begged the higher-ups to let me come to this timeframe. 
Oh yes, I've previously asked Nagato-san to leave us for now." 

If it's Nagato, I guess she wouldn't even flinch when seeing this Asahina. 

" Do you know who Nagato-san really is?" 

"I'm sorry, but that's classified information. Oh, I realized I haven't said that for a long time 
now." 

"I just heard you say that only a few days ago." 

"You're right." Asahina said while knocking her head and sticking her tongue out. This really 
does look like what Asahina would do. 

Yet she began to look serious suddenly. 

"I can't stay here for too long, so I'll cut to the point." 


Just say whatever you want to say! 



"Have you heard of Snow White?" 

I looked at the slightly taller Asahina. Her black pupils seemed to be a bit moist. 

"Well, yeah " 

"No matter what distressing situations you will face from now on, I hope you will remember this 
story." 

"You mean the one with the seven dwarves, the wicked witch and the poisoned apple?" 

"Yes, the story of Snow White." 

"I experienced something distressing yesterday already." 

"No it's more serious than that. I can't tell you the details, but all I can say is that Suzumiya 

Haruhi will also be by your side." 

Haruhi? Also by my side? You mean both she and I will get involved in something troublesome? 
When? Where? 

" Maybe Suzumiya-san doesn't think it bothersome but for you and us all, it is a tricky 

problem." 

"You can't tell me the details can you?" 

"I'm sorry, I can only give you hints. That's all I can do." 

The grown-up Asahina was so apologetic that she was near tears. Yes, that's the expression 
Asahina usually shows. 

"You mean the story of Snow White?" 

"Yes." 

"I'll remember it." 

After seeing me nod, Asahina said she still had a bit of time left, so she walked around the club 
room nostalgically, preciously caressing the maid costume hanging on the clothes rack. 

"I used to wear this often. Now I definitely wouldn't dare to wear this." 

"You seem to be cosplaying as an office girl now though." 

"Hee hee, since I can't enter in my uniform, I have to dress up as a teacher." 



Some people are just born to have costumes worn on them. 


"Speaking of which, what else did Haruhi make you wear?" 

"I'm not telling you, it's too embarrassing. Besides, you'll find out soon enough, isn't that right?" 

Asahina walked with her slippers and came towards my face. I discovered her eyes were 
unusually moist, and her face a little red. 

"Then I'll be going now!" 

Asahina looked at me, wanting to continue but decided to stop. Seeing her trembling and 
seemingly wanting something, perhaps I should give her a kiss. Just when I was about to 
embrace her, she backed off. 

Asahina turned around lightly and said, 

"Finally, I have one more request. Please don't get too close to me." 

She said with a weak sigh. 

I quickly shouted to Asahina, who was running to the door, "I have a question for you!" 

Asahina stopped just as she was about to open the door. 

"Asahina-san, just how old are you?" 

Asahina turned and shook her hair out, then gave a seductive smile, "Classified information-." 


The door closed just like that. I couldn't have done anything even if I had given chase. 

Wow, I could hardly believe that Asahina would look so hot when she grew up. Then I suddenly 

thought of the first thing she said. "Kyon-kun it's been a while." It can only mean one thing: 

Asahina hadn't seen me for a long time. 

"Yes, that should make sense." 

The future Asahina must have probably returned to her not-so-distant future, and then spent a 
few years there, before reuniting with me in this age again. 

How long has it been for her? From how she has grown, I'd say perhaps five years or even 

three! Girls change a lot when they graduate from high school. My cousin was like that. When 



she was in high school, she had always been a quiet, bright schoolgirl that didn't attract any 
attention. Then when she entered university, she metamorphosed from an ugly caterpillar into a 
beautiful butterfly. Yet since she's grown, I'm even more confused by Asahina's true age; I don't 
think she's 17 at all! 

Man, I'm hungry, I think I'll go back. 


Just then, Nagato Yuki entered with her usual well-preserved cold face, but as she wasn't 
wearing glasses today, her naked glare landed on me. 

"Hey, did you just see someone who looked like Asahina passing by?" I half-jokingly said. 

"I have seen Asahina Mikuru's differential temporal clone this morning already." 

Nagato silently sat on her seat and then placed her book on the desk and opened it. 

"She is no longer here now and has departed from this timeframe." 

"Can you travel through time as well? With that Data Entity thingy?" 

"I cannot. However, temporal movement is not as difficult as one would think; it's just that 
humans have yet to grasp its basic principles. Time is like space; moving through it is very 
simple." 

"Then can you teach me?" 

"That is a concept that cannot be conveyed in speech, so you wouldn't understand even if I 
explained it." 

"Is that so?" 

"Yes." 

"I guess that's too bad." 

"Too bad." 

It was pointless trying to talk to such a wooden character, so I decided to go back to the 
classroom. Maybe I still have time for lunch? 

"Nagato-san, thanks for yesterday." 


Her wooden expression moved slightly. 



"There is no need to thank me. Asakura Ryouko's actions were my responsibility; I was careless 
with my supervision." 

Her hair parting swung softly. 

Was she trying to bow and apologize to me? 

"You definitely look cuter without your glasses." 

She didn't reply. 

I had wanted to rush back to the classroom to have my lunch, but Haruhi was there waiting for 
me at the door, and my plans for having lunch went out of the window at once. Could this be 
fate? It seems I've reached the point where I can see through all karma. 

Waiting impatiently by the corridor, Haruhi yelled in an annoyed tone, 

"Where did you run off to? I thought you'd be back sooner, I haven't even eaten because I was 
waiting for you so long!" 

She doesn't sound mad at all, rather she sounds like those childhood girlfriends who pout trying 
to hide their embarrassment. 

"Don't stand there like an idiot! Follow me!" 

Haruhi placed a wrestling wristlock over my hand and dragged me to the dark staircase. 

I'm really hungry, man ! 

"I've just asked Okabe in the staff room. The teachers only learned about Asakura transferring 
this morning. Early in the morning, someone claiming to be Asakura's dad called, saying they 
had to move due to some emergency. And you know where they're moving? Canada! How can 
this be possible? It's just too fishy!" 

"Oh really?" 

"After that, I said I was a good friend of Asakura and wanted to ask the teachers if I could 
contact her in Canada." 

Please, you hardly ever talked to her when she was still around. 

"And you know what the teachers said? They say they didn't know. Normally if someone were to 
move, wouldn't they usually leave their contact details? Something is funny here." 


No, there isn't! 



"So I asked for Asakura Ryouko's old address from before she moved. I'm gonna go there and 
have a look after school. Maybe we can find something there." 


This girl never listens to what other people are saying, as usual. 

Forget it, I'm not going to stop her. In the end, the one wasting her time would be Haruhi, not 
me. 

"You're coming as well." 

"Why!?" 

Haruhi puffed up her shoulders, and then like a dragon huffing and puffing before firing its 
breath, she shouted in at a volume the whole school could hear, 

"BECAUSE YOU'RE A MEMBER OF THE SOS BRIGADE! ! !" 


Complying with Haruhi's orders, I retreated frantically. I went to the club room to tell Nagato 
about it since neither me nor Haruhi would be having any club activities today, and I had Nagato 
relay the message to Asahina and Koizumi as well when they arrived. Yet I didn't know whether 
this silent alien would make things even more complicated, so just to be safe, I took a felt-tip pen 
and wrote on the back of one of the SOS Brigade flyers, 

"There're no activities today for the SOS Brigade. - Haruhi" 

and pasted the note on the door. 

Leaving Koizumi aside, at least Asahina can save having to change into her maid costume. 

Thanks to all this, the school bell for the fifth session chimed before I could eat anything. So it 
wasn't till after the next recess before I could eat. 


I'd be lying if I said I've never wanted to walk shoulder to shoulder with a girl after school just 
like in those idol dramas. But even though this dream has now become a reality, I'm far from 
happy. Just what is going on? 


Did you just say something? 



Haruhi asked while walking by my left side, striding with large steps while carrying a piece of 
notepaper. I automatically interpreted her question as "You got a problem?" 

"Nope, nothing at all." 

We walked down the hill and followed the railway line. A little bit further on would be Koyouen 
Station. 

I had thought we were getting near Nagato's home, yet I never thought Haruhi was also walking 
towards that place as well. We then arrived before a familiar, brand-new apartment block. 

"Asakura seems to live in Room 505." 

"No wonder." 

"What do you mean 'no wonder'?" 

"No, nothing. Oh yeah, how do you expect to go in? Look, even the gate is locked." 

I pointed to the number keypad by the intercom and said, 

"You need to enter the correct code to open the door. Do you know it?" 

"Nope, we're gonna need to endure a prolonged battle in this situation." 

What're you trying to wait for anyway? Just after I thought how long that's going to take, we 
didn't wait long. As at this moment a middle-aged lady opened the gate from inside, seemingly 
about to go out to buy some grocery. She looked at us for a while with a questioning glance and 
then walked off. Haruhi rushed to keep the gate open just before it was about to shut. 

This doesn't seem wise at all. 

"Hurry along!" 

So I was dragged like that into the entrance hall, and then entered the elevator, which happened 
to stop at the ground floor. It is basic etiquette to silently look at the floor numbers when riding 
an elevator 

"That Asakura " 

But Haruhi doesn't seem to recognize the existence of etiquette. 

" There 're many other fishy things about her. She didn't seem to have attended the local junior 

high as well." 


Well, of course. 



"I did some research and found she transferred to North High from another town. This is too 
suspicious! North High isn't some famous school or anything, just a normal local high school. 
Why would she go through so much effort just to come from another town to attend this school?" 

"Dunno." 

"Yet she lives near the school, and it's one of those apartments paid by cash and not by rent. The 
price must be insanely expensive. Has she been commuting by train all the way to her junior high 
out of town all this time?" 

"I told you I don't know." 

"Looks like there is a need to find out when Asakura started living here." 

The elevator stopped at the fifth floor. We silently stood and looked at the door for Room 505. 
The name board by the door had been removed, indicating this was an empty apartment. Haruhi 
turned the door knob, but as expected, it's locked. 

Haruhi crossed her arms, wondering how to get inside the apartment to investigate, while I stood 
by trying hard not to yawn. This is a complete waste of my time. 

"Let's find the concierge!" 

"I don't think he'll lend us the key." 

"No, I'm thinking of asking him when Asakura started living here." 

"Forget it, let's go home! What can we do even if we did know?" 

"No." 

We took the elevator and returned to the ground floor, and went to the concierge's post at the 
entrance hall. There didn't seem to be anyone behind the glass panel, yet when we pushed the 
buzzer by the panel, a little old man with white hair slowly appeared. 

Haruhi began to bombard the old man with questions before he could even speak. 

"Excuse me, we're friends of Asakura-san. She suddenly said she was moving without even 
leaving her new address, and we don't know how to contact her. Could we please ask if you 
know where she moved to? And, could we please know when Asakura-san started living here?" 

As I was being amazed at how Haruhi can actually use such normal, polite language, the old man 
seemed to be hard of hearing as he kept replying with, "What?", "Come again?", and so on. 
Despite that, Haruhi still managed to learn from the old man that he too was surprised at Asakura 
suddenly moving out. (/ didn't even see the movers come, yet all the furniture inside was gone. It 
still gives me the creeps .) And that Asakura moved in three years ago. (/ remember the pretty lil' 



lady giving me a box of treats that day!) Also, instead of paying by installments, the apartment 
seems to have been paid for in one single down payment with cash. (/ guess they must be very 
rich!) Wow! You can be a detective at this rate! 

The old man seemed pleased to be able to talk to a young girl like Haruhi. 

"Come to think of it, although I've often seen that pretty young lady, I don't recall ever seeing her 
parents." 

"I remember the lil’ lady's called Ryouko. Such an elegant name for a girl." 

"I was hoping she would at least say goodbye it's such a pity. Oh yeah, you're pretty cute as 

well!" 

When the old man began to talk about similar stuff, Haruhi determined she could no longer 
extract any more data from him, so she decided to bow to him politely and said, "Thank you very 
much for your help." 

She then urged me to leave. This didn't need any urging at all, since I was already prepared to 
follow her and leave this apartment block. 

"Hey, kiddo, that missy is gonna grow into a pretty lady, make sure you don't let her out of your 
grasp!" 

The old man was obviously talking nonsense. What I was worried about was what sort of terrible 
reaction Haruhi, who had overheard all that, would have. Yet she silently continued moving 
forward, and I remained silent as well. A few steps from the entrance hall, we bumped into 
Nagato, carrying her bag and some convenience store plastic bags. For Nagato, who would often 
be in the club room reading her book until the school closed, to be here, means she had also left 
school after I had. 

"Ah! Could it be that you live here as well? Such a coincidence!" 

Nagato nodded with her pale white face. Please, how can this be a coincidence? 

"Have you heard anything about Asakura?" 

She shook her head. 

"I see. If you hear anything about Asakura, remember to tell me." 

She nodded her head. 


I noticed some food cans and vegetables inside her convenience store bags and thought, so she 
can eat after all ! 



What happened to your glasses? 


Nagato didn't directly answer the question but only silently looked at me. I panicked a bit being 
stared at by her like that, while Haruhi, not expecting her to answer at all, simply shrugged her 
shoulders and walked off without turning her head. I lifted my arm and waved goodbye to 
Nagato. 

As we walked past, Nagato whispered, "Be careful." 

Be careful of what this time? As I was about to turn and ask her, Nagato had already entered the 
apartment block. 


I followed Haruhi, who was walking aimlessly along the railway line, remaining two to three 
steps behind her. We would be getting farther from home if we continued this way, so I asked 
where we were going. 

"Nowhere in particular." She replied. 

I looked at the back of Haruhi's head and said, "Then can I go home now?" 

At this point, Haruhi stopped walking, looking as though she was about to fall forward. Then she 
looked at me with a face as pale white as Nagato's. 

"Do you ever get the feeling you're just a small nail on this Earth?" 

She continued, "I have, and I'll never forget it." 

Haruhi stood by the railway tracks, sorry, the railway path, and began to talk. 

"When I was in sixth grade, I went with my family to see a baseball game. I wasn't really 
interested in baseball, yet when I went there, I was given a shock, since everywhere I looked 
there were people all around. The people at the opposite of the stadium were as small as a grain 
of rice, in constant motion. I had thought the whole nation had gathered upon this spot then. So I 
asked my dad how many people were at the stadium. My dad said as it was full that day, maybe 
around fifty thousand? 

"After the game, the roads were packed with people. Seeing all this, I was stunned. There were 
so many people here, yet they were only a tiny fraction of the whole nation. I read in geography 
class that Japan had a population of a hundred million, so I went home and did some math using 
a calculator, and I found out that fifty thousand was only one out of two thousand of the total 
population. At that time, I was stunned again. I was only a small part of so many people in the 
stadium, and this many people were merely one out of two thousand of the whole nation. 



"Before that, I had always felt myself to be special. I was happy with my family, and I felt I was 
with the world's most interesting people in my class. Yet from that time on, I realized things 
weren't like that. The experiences I had in school that I thought were the happiest things in the 
world, turned out to exist in every school. For the whole nation, this was nothing special. When I 
discovered that, the whole world around me lost its color. I brush my teeth and go to sleep, then 
wake up and have breakfast. You see these things everywhere. 

"I found it extremely boring when I realized all these things are all part of a person's ordinary 
life. I believe that since there're so many people in this world, there has to be someone who's 
living an extraordinary, exciting life. But why isn't that person me? 

"Before I graduated from elementary school, I thought all about it. So when I entered junior high, 
I decided to change myself. I wanted to let the world know, I'm not a girl who will only sit and 
wait. I believe I've tried my best, but everything's the same as it's always been. And now I'm in 
high school, still hoping for something to change." 



£3 

When she finished she gave an expression of regretting ever saying all that, and looked at the sky in 
anguish. 

Haruhi said this without pause, as though giving a speech in a debate. When she finished she gave an 
expression of regretting ever saying all that, and looked at the sky in anguish. A train passed rapidly by 
us. Thanks to all the rumbling noise, I had time to consider if I should continue asking or whether I 
should find something philosophical to please Haruhi. 

I watched the train leave behind its Doppler Effect sound and said, "Is that so?" 


I felt bad at only coming up with such a simple reply. 



Haruhi used her hands to hold down her hair, which was blown up by the draft from the passing 
train, and said, "Let's go!" 

After that, she went towards whence we came from. Though I could reach home faster if I 
followed where Haruhi was headed, it was as though her back was silently telling me "Don't 
follow me!", so I stayed where I was and watched Haruhi walk off until she disappeared from 
my sight. 

Just what the hell have I been doing all along? 


When I came home, I found Koizumi waiting by the door. 

"Hi." 

His smile looked a bit fake for trying to greet an old friend. He waved heartily at me, wearing his 
uniform and carrying his bag, apparently having just come home from school. 

"I want to keep the promise I made to you earlier. That's why I've been waiting for you. I never 
thought you'd return so quickly!" 

Koizumi continued with his ever-present smile, 

"Can I delay you for a moment? I'd like to take you to see a place." 

"Something to do with Suzumiya?" 

"It's something to do with Suzumiya-san." 

I opened the door and placed my bag by the entrance room. Then after telling my sister, who had 
just come out, that I was going to be a bit late tonight, I went back to Koizumi. 

A few minutes later, we went on a ride. 


Koizumi flagged down a taxi that stopped by my place, then we rode off along the main road 
eastwards. Koizumi told the driver to go to a large city outside the prefecture. It would be 
cheaper to go by train, but since Koizumi was paying, I didn't really mind. 


Right, what was the promise you said you were going to keep? 



"Didn't you say you wanted to see proof of my esper powers? Now's the chance, that's why I 
wanted you to come!" 


"Is there any need to travel so far?" 

"Yes. I can only use my powers under specific places and conditions. The place we're headed to 
fits those conditions." 

"You still believe Haruhi is God?" 

Koizumi, sitting together with me at the rear, glanced at me sideways. 

"Have you ever heard of the Anthropic Principle?" 

"Never heard of it." 

Koizumi sighed and smiled again, 

"Basically, it's the theory that 'if something must be true for us, as humans, to exist, then it is true 
simply because we exist.'" 

I don't get it. 

"The universe exists simply because it is there for us to observe. In other words, the intelligent 
lifeform known as humans learned of the existence of the universe through observing how the 
universe was formed by the discovery of the laws of physics. If humans had not evolved to the 
present level, then observation would be impossible, and they would never learn of the existence 
of the universe. 

This means whether the universe exists or not, for a human who hasn't completely evolved, it 
wouldn't make much of a difference. It is because of the presence of us fully-evolved humans 
that the existence of the universe is widely accepted. This is the method of thinking from the 
humans' point of view." 

"Such a queer way of thinking! I mean the universe exists regardless of whether humans exist or 
not." 

"You're right. That's why the Anthropic Principle is not completely scientific, just a 
philosophical way of thinking. However, something interesting comes out from this theory. " 

The taxi stopped at the red light, the driver was looking forwards only, and never bothered to 
turn around at us. 

"Why did the universe come to be in a state suitable for human habitation? A minor change in 
the gravitational constant would mean a completely different universe from the one we're in. 



Other sets of rules such as Planck's Constant or the mass ratio of atomic molecules seem to be 
designed specifically so that humans can live in this universe. Don't you find this incredible?" 

I felt my back itch. This is because the stuff Koizumi said sounds like one of the rhetorical flyers 
given out by those newly formed religions whose founding principles are based on scientific 
theories. 

"Relax! I don't believe in the existence of an Almighty God, or the Ultimate Creator that created 
humans. Many of my companions think the same way as well. Yet, there's one thing that bothers 
us." 

Bothered by what? 

"The things that we do. Are they as foolish as a clown doing a handstand by the edge of a cliff?" 

The expression on my face right now was probably very strange, or Koizumi wouldn't have 
laughed so hard like a hen clucking away. 

"I was kidding!" 

"I really don't know what the hell you're talking about." 

I really wanted to tell him, I don't have time to play some stupid jokes with you. Can you let me 
off? Driver, do you mind turning around? If possible, I'd prefer the latter choice. 

"I'm just using the Anthropic Principle as a comparison. We still haven't touched on the subject 
of Suzumiya-san." 

This is too strange! Why are you, Nagato and Asahina all so infatuated with Haruhi? 

"I believe she is a very charismatic person. Let's leave that aside now, do you still remember me 
saying that this world had probably been created by Suzumiya-san?" 

I didn't like what he was saying, but I did remember it having been said. 

"She has the ability to realize dreams." 

Can you not be so conclusive? 

"I cannot not think like that, because right now the world is headed towards Suzumiya-san's 
wishes." 


How is that possible? 



"Suzumiya-san always believed aliens existed, that's why Nagato Yuki appeared. Similarly, she 
wanted to meet time travelers, so Asahina Mikuru appeared as well. And I appeared before her 
for the same reasons as well." 

"And how do you know that?" 

"It was three years ago " 

Three years ago again! I'm sick of hearing that already! 

"One day, I suddenly realized I possessed a specific power, and for some reason, I fully 
understood how to use this power. At the same time, I also discovered others like me have also 
had their powers awakened and that these powers were granted by Suzumiya Haruhi. I can't go 
into the details, so all I can say is that I know these things while not being able to explain them." 

"Alright, even if I believe you have these powers, I still can't believe Haruhi can have such 
powers." 

"Neither did I. A mere schoolgirl having the ability to change the world — sorry, I guess it should 
be more like the ability to create worlds, huh? The scary thing is that this girl now finds the 
world she's in to be boring." 

"Why's that?" 

"Didn't I say it before? If she could create worlds at will, then naturally she can make this world 
disappear without a trace and then restructure it according to her wishes. Then, in a literal sense, 
the world will have come to an end. We can't determine whether this theory is correct or not; 
who knows, the world which we believe to be unique has probably been recreated many times 
before already." 

I was overusing the word "unbelievable" so much now that I needed a thesaurus. 

"If that's the case, why don't you just tell Haruhi who you really are? Let her know espers really 
do exist. If she knew, I think she'd be really happy. Maybe then, she wouldn't want to try and 
destroy this world!" 

"Then it would pose a greater problem. If Suzumiya-san believed the existence of espers to be a 
very normal thing, then the whole world would become like that. All the laws of physics would 
be distorted: the Molecular Constant, the Second Law of Thermodynamics, and the rest of the 
universe would all descend into chaos." 

"There's something I don't understand." I continued, "I remember you saying it was Haruhi's 
longing to meet aliens, time travelers and espers that caused you, Nagato-san, and Asahina-san to 
appear before her?" 


Yes. 



"If that's true, then why hasn't Haruhi discovered that yet? In contrast, it's just you and me who 
know everything, isn't that a little strange?" 


"You find it inconsistent? It really isn't; the real inconsistency is within Suzumiya-san's heart." 
Can't you say something that I can understand please ! ? 

"In other words, she does hope for the existence of aliens, time travelers, and espers. Her 
common sense, however, is telling her that these things don't exist, and this creates cognitive 
dissonance. Though she may be eccentric in her actions and speech, her thinking is still no 
different from the ordinary person. Her stormy enthusiasm has slowly calmed down in the last 
few months, and we're glad to see her stabilize, yet a tornado-like change has occurred 
suddenly." 

"And why is that?" 

"It's all because of you." 

Koizumi's raised his lips, 

"If you hadn't given Suzumiya-san some funny ideas, we would still be observing her from 
behind the scenes right now. " 

"What did I do!?" 

"It was you who encouraged her to form that weird club. All because of a conversation she had 
with you, she came up with the idea of forming a club to gather all the mysterious characters. So 
you must carry full responsibility for all of this. It is because of you that the three groups most 
concerned with Suzumiya Haruhi have now gathered together." 

" That's an unfair accusation!" I defended myself unconvincingly. 

Koizumi only smiled and continued, "But that's not the only reason." 

He stopped talking after saying that. As I was about to say something, the driver said suddenly, 
"We're here." 

The car came to a stop and the door opened. I stepped into the crowded street with Koizumi. 
Though the driver then drove off without even charging any fare, I wasn't at all surprised. 

If people in this area wanted to go shopping, this would be the place for them to do so. This is 
the typical local metropolis with the railway interchange, as well as all sorts of department stores 
and complex architecture. The sunset bathed the bustling street full of pedestrians in a glowing 
color. When the lights at the intersection ahead turned green, the road became occupied by a sea 
of people in an instant. We were separated for a while by this wave after we got off by the 
sidewalk. 



"What is it that you wanted to show me by taking me here?" 

Walking slowly by the zebra crossing, Koizumi looked ahead and said, "There's still time for you 
to change your mind!" 

"I'm already here anyway, so cut to the chase." 

Walking besides me, Koizumi suddenly grabbed my hand. Hey, what do think you're doing!? 
That's gross! 

"Excuse me, but can you please close your eyes for a while? This won't take long." 

I dodged to avoid a commuter from bumping into me. The green lights started flashing. 

Alright! So I obligingly closed my eyes. I could still hear the many footsteps on the street, the car 
engines roaring, the endless chatting, and all sorts of noises. 

Under Koizumi's guidance, I walked ahead one step, two steps, three steps, and then I stopped. 
"You can open them now." 

I slowly opened my eyes. 

The whole world fell into a shade of grey. 


It was really dark. I couldn't help but lift my head towards the sky. The glowing orange sun was 
nowhere to be seen, and the sky was covered by gloomy grey clouds. Were those really clouds? 
The flawless dark horizon stretched endlessly ahead in every direction. The only thing that 
stopped this world from falling completely into darkness was the occasional light that shone 
through, replacing that of the bright sun, producing a weak glow in the grey sky. 

There were no people at all. 

Besides Koizumi and I, standing in the middle of the intersection, the bustling crowd that was 
here before had now vanished without a trace. In the vast darkness, only the traffic lights flashed, 
changing red, while the other set of traffic lights turned green, yet there was not a single vehicle 
on the road. It was so quiet that one might wonder if the Earth had stopped spinning as well. 

"We're now in a gap within a cross-dimensional faultline; this is a Sealed Reality, a place that is 
completely cut off from the world we live in." 


Koizumi's voice became particularly clear in the silence. 



"The center of this intersection falls right by the "Wall" of this Sealed Reality. Look, just like 
that." 

Koizumi's outstretched arm stopped in midair, as though blocked by something. I tried to do the 
same and stretched my arm towards that direction; it felt like touching cold washed vegetables. 
My hands pushed through the surface of an elastic invisible wall, but I could not extend any 
further beyond ten centimeters. 

"This Sealed Reality has a radius of five kilometers. Usually, it's impossible to enter using 
normal physical means. One of my powers is the ability to enter such spaces." 

Like bamboo poles standing, not a single light shone from the buildings around. The shops 
within the shopping district were all dark inside, with only the street lamps flickering weakly. 

"Where is this place?" 

No, the question ought to be "What dimension is this?" 

"I'll explain as we move along," said Koizumi casually, 

"I'm not too sure about the details, but this is a dimension located not far from ours Let's put it 

this way, a cross-dimensional faultline just appeared right over there, and we have entered 
through the gap. At this moment, the outside world is still going on with its everyday life. It's 
nearly impossible for normal humans to stumble upon this world by accident." 

We crossed the street. Koizumi walked in a direction he had already decided. 

"Imagine an inverted bowl-like, egg-shaped dimension, and this place is its interior." 

We entered a multi-story apartment complex, but not a single person could be seen, not even a 
speck of dust. 

"Sealed Realities occur randomly. Sometimes it appears once every other day, and sometimes it 
appears once every several months. Yet, one thing's for sure..." 

We climbed up the stairs though it was dark inside. If I hadn't been following Koizumi closely, I 
would've tripped. 

"Whenever Suzumiya-san is in a mentally unstable condition, this space will appear." 

We arrived at the rooftop of the apartment block. 

"Once a Sealed Reality appears, I will be able to sense it; so too can my companions. How do we 
know that? Frankly, even we don't know how. In any case, we just know when and where a 
Sealed Reality will appear, and how to penetrate it. I can't describe this feeling in words." 



I held the rooftop fence and looked towards the sky; no breeze could be felt. 


"You brought me here to see this? There's hardly anyone here!" 

"No, the real thing comes after this. It's about to start." 

Quit joking around! But Koizumi pretended not to notice my unpleasant expression. 

"My abilities are merely to detect Sealed Realities and penetrate them. To be honest, I can even 
detect Suzumiya-san's state of mind. This world is like a blister created from the tremors of 
Suzumiya-san's unstable emotional state, and I am the medicine designed to cure the blisters." 

"Your comparison sure is hard to understand." 

"People often tell me that. Anyway, you're pretty amazing! You don't seem freaked out at all by 
the sight of all this." 

At this moment, images of Asakura vanishing without a trace and a grown-up version of Asahina 
flashed before my mind: I've had way too many of such experiences already. 

Suddenly, Koizumi lifted his head and glanced afar. 

"Seems like it's begun. Turn around and look behind you." 

I saw it. 

Standing between the tall buildings in the distance was a glowing blue giant. 


It was taller than a 30-story building by a head's length. Its slim, deep blue shaded figure seemed 
to contain some sort of material which allowed it to glow from within. Since it was too dark, I 
could not perceive its outline, and besides the eyes and mouth, which seemed a bit darker, its 
face didn't seem to have any other features. 

What on earth is that? 

The giant slowly lifted its arm and then swung it down like an axe. 

The building beside it was smashed in half; then as if in slow-motion, the concrete, wires, and 
debris made a deafening noise falling to the ground. 

"We believe this to be the manifestation of Suzumiya-san's frustration. Every time her inner 
conflict reaches a certain limit, this giant will appear and destroy everything around it to relieve 



pressure, but we cannot allow this thing to have its way in our reality, or it'll cause widespread 
destruction. That is why this Sealed Reality is created, so that it can wreak its destruction inside. 
Does that make sense?" 

Every time the glowing blue giant waved its arms, the buildings would be sliced in half and 
collapse. The giant would then continue forwards, stepping on the debris. Surprisingly, I could 
only hear the sound of the buildings collapsing, but not the footsteps of the giant. 

"According to the laws of physics, it should be impossible for a giant like him to be able to stand, 
due to its weight. Yet he is able to move around freely in a weightless condition. Though 
destroying a building involves a change in molecular structure, these rules don't seem to apply to 
him. Not even an army would be able to stop him." 

"So we just let him have his way?" 

"No, and this is why I exist. Please look over there." 

Koizumi pointed towards the giant. I watched where he was pointing and noticed a few glowing 
red dots that weren't around before, now flying around the giant. Compared to the large blue 
giant, the red dots were like sesame seeds. There were five of them in total, but because they 
were flying so fast, my eyes couldn't catch up with them. Like satellites, the red dots orbited 
around the giant as though trying to stop the giant from moving further ahead. 

"Those are my companions, who, like me, have obtained their powers from Suzumiya-san, 
warriors in charge of hunting down these giants." 

The red dots skillfully dodged the giant's arm attacks while changing their flight path swiftly and 
attacked the giant's body. The giant's body seemed to be made of gas since the red dots simply 
flew through it. 

However, the giant seemed oblivious to the red dots' attacks and raised its arm again to smash 
another department store building. 

No matter how the red dots attacked, the giant didn't seem to be stopping. Red laser-like beams 
now penetrated the giant's body nonstop, but as I was too far away, I could not figure out the 
extent of damage it had sustained. One thing was for certain: the red beams didn't create any 
holes in the giant's body. 

"Right, I think I should join them now." 

Koizumi's body started to glow red, and soon, his glowing body was covered in a red glowing 
sphere. Standing before me was no longer a human, but a large glowing ball. 


This is getting ridiculous. 



As if making a signal, the glowing sphere started to rise and then flew straight towards the giant 
at an incredible speed. 

Since the red spheres never stopped flying, I couldn't figure out how many there were in total, 
but there shouldn't have been more than ten, including Koizumi. They bravely flew towards the 
giant's body, but all they could do was fly through it. The giant was barely, if even, hurt. As I 
was thinking that way, one of the red spheres suddenly approached the giant's wrist and circled 
it. 

The next moment, the giant's hand was sliced off. The masterless hand fell towards the ground 
and gave out a mosaic glow, started to become transparent, and then disintegrated like snow 
melting under the sun. I guess the blue smoke coming out of the giant's severed wrist must have 
been its blood. The scene ahead was truly the stuff of fantasy. 

The red dots seemed to have changed their attacking style of charging towards the giant. They 
approached the giant like a bunch of fleas surrounding a dog. The red beams sliced through the 
giant's face, and its head came falling down; after that, its shoulder fell as well, followed by its 
upper torso, leaving behind a strange shape. The falling bits began to give out the characteristic 
mosaic glow, then disintegrated and vanished. 

As the giant was standing in a large piece of land without any obstacles around, I was able to see 
the whole process from beginning to end. When the giant's upper torso fell off, its remaining 
body also began to disintegrate, finally dissolving into beads smaller than dust and spreading 
over the debris. 

Once the red dots floating above made sure their work was done, they started flying off in all 
directions. Most of them disappeared at once; only one flew towards me, finally landing at the 
rooftop of the apartment complex. The red sphere slowly lost its glow, and finally Koizumi stood 
before me, waving his hair pretentiously with his usual smile. 

"Sorry to keep you waiting." 

He sounded very calm, and he didn't sound exhausted at all. 

"Finally, I'd like to show you something interesting." 

Koizumi pointed towards the sky. I half-suspiciously raised my head, and in the gloomy grey 
skies, I saw it! 

Right above where the giant first appeared was a crack, like that of a hatching bird trying to 
break through its eggshell. The crack began to spread rapidly like a spider web. 


"Following the blue creature's destruction, the Sealed Reality will also be destroyed. It's like a 
magic show!" 



As Koizumi finished his explanation, the large cracks now covered the world ahead, like being 
covered in a metallic net. The net margins started to narrow until they became as small as black 
curvy lines. Then, at this moment, crack! 


Actually, I didn't really hear any sound. It was just my brain trying to simulate the sound of glass 
cracking. A light penetrated from a spot in the sky, and then spread out in all directions in a 
sphere. I felt the light shower downwards. No, that's not the right wording: it was more like the 
opening of the retractable roof of the Tokyo Dome stadium, all within a few seconds. The 
difference is that this roof covered all the buildings under it. 

A loud bustling noise started to rumble in my eardrums, and I covered my ears instinctively. But 
that was because I'd stayed in a world of silence for quite some time and couldn't adapt quickly. 
When I listened carefully again, it was the usual bustling noise in the streets. 

The world reverted back to its original state. 

There were no collapsed buildings, no grey skies, and no glowing red spheres flying through the 
air. The road was full of vehicles and people. A familiar orange glow could be seen through the 
gaps between the buildings. The world seemed grateful at the reception of such warmth and left 
long shadows behind. 

The breeze blew softly. 


"Now do you understand?" 

Koizumi asked me as we boarded the taxi, which seemed to magically stop before us after we 
left the apartment block. When I looked, I realized it was the same driver as before. 

"I don't get it." I answered truthfully. 

"I'd knew you'd say that." Koizumi laughed, "Those blue creatures, we call them Avatars, but, as 
I've told you before, they are greatly related to Suzumiya-san's mental condition. We're the same, 
of course. Once a Sealed Reality appears, once the Avatars begin their movement, we'll be able 
to use our powers. We can only use those powers within the Sealed Reality; right now, I'm 
powerless." 

I silently glanced at the driver's back. 

"I don't know why it's just us who have such powers, but I think it has nothing to do with our 
identities. It's like winning the lottery: even though the chances may be low, there's bound to be 
someone winning. I just happened to be the one to be stabbed by the random spear." 



"How unlucky I am!" Koizumi smiled forcefully. I remained silent because I didn't know what I 
should have said. 

"We cannot allow the Avatars to move freely. Why is that? Because the more these Avatars 
damage, the larger the sphere of the Sealed Reality will grow. The one you just saw was a 
smaller one. If we leave them unattended, they will continue to grow until they cover the whole 
nation, even the whole world, and finally, that alternate grey world will completely replace the 
world we're living in." 

I finally open my mouth. 

"How come you know so much?" 

"I told you, I just know, it can't be explained. Everyone associated with the 'Organization' is the 
same. One day they just suddenly knew everything about Suzumiya-san and how she could 
affect this world, as well as realizing that since they now had supernatural powers, they couldn't 
just allow these Sealed Realities to continue untouched. When normal people learn of this kind 
of thing, they would normally want to see if they can be of any help. If we hadn't done anything 
about it, the world as we know it would have been destroyed." 

"And that'd be troublesome." Koizumi fell silent after mumbling these words. 

Before I reached home, we just quietly watched the view outside the window. 

The car stopped, and as I was stepping out, he spoke again, 

"Please pay attention to Suzumiya-san's actions. Her supposedly stable mental state has now 
begun to show signs of rapid change. It's been quite a while since something like today has 
happened." 

Even if I did observe, she had still become like that, isn't that so? 

"Frankly, I don't know either. But I find it to be a good idea to leave everything to you, since 
some of my companions tend to think about things in a much too complex way." 

Before I could reply, Koizumi stuck his head back inside the open door and shut it. As I watched 
the legendary phantom taxi drive off into the distance, I suddenly felt very stupid, so I started to 
stride back home. 


Chapter 7 

An artificial human who claimed to be created by aliens, a girl who traveled from the future, and 
a young esper warrior have all shown me proof of their identities in order to gain my trust. They 


revolve around Haruhi for three different reasons. Honestly, it's not too bad at all. No, it is bad. 
Because I still can't understand one thing. 


Why me? 

Koizumi said the reason aliens, time travelers, and espers all gather around Haruhi is because she 
wished for it. 

Then, what about me? 

Why am I involved in all of this? I'm just a human being. One hundred percent normal. I don't 
have any sudden memories of a strange past life, or any unspeakable powers. Just a superbly 
normal high school student ! 

Who on earth wrote the script for this story anyway? 

Or has someone drugged me and caused me to hallucinate all of this? Or maybe I've been struck 
by a toxic electric wave? Who the hell got me stuck in all this? 

Is it you, Haruhi? 


Just kidding. 


I don't really know anything. 

Why am I so troubled? It seems all the answers rest with Haruhi. She should be the one 
worrying. Why do I have to be frustrated for her as well? This doesn't make sense! I've decided 
so! If things are as Nagato, Koizumi and Asahina say, then you guys should just tell Haruhi 
herself! Whatever becomes of the world then, that's her responsibility; I have nothing to do with 
it. 

Just put her on your merry-go-round! Leave me out of this! 

As the days counted down to summer, I walked sweatily up the slope, wiping my sweat off with 
my jacket, while pulling my tie and opening my third shirt button. It was already this hot in the 
morning, and it would become hellish by noon. As I was gritting my teeth and walking on the 
slope to school, someone slapped my shoulder. As I yelled "Don't touch me! It's hot!" and turned 
around, Taniguchi's face came into view. 



"Yo!" 

Taniguchi, walking side by side with me now, was also in a sweat. "How annoying, my well- 
prepared hairdo is ruined by all this sweat." Though he said that, he still looked so cheerful. 

"Say, Taniguchi," I cut in as Taniguchi went on bragging nonsensically about how his dog was 
doing, "I'm a normal high schooler, right?" 

"What?" 

Taniguchi gave a laugh as though he'd heard a very funny joke. 

"Maybe you should define what 'normal' is. Otherwise this conversation won't make sense." 
"Really?" 

I regretted having asked him that question. 

"Just kidding! You, normal? I don't think a normal high schooler would push down a girl in an 
empty classroom!" 

Of course, Taniguchi wouldn't forget such things. 

"I'm a guy as well, so I know my limits. Your secret is safe with me, you get what I mean?" 

I didn't get it at all. 

"When did you and she have such a relationship? Nagato Yuki is what I would grade as an A-!" 
So, Nagato is an A- by his grading. I tried to explain to Taniguchi, 

"That's because..." 

I suppose Taniguchi's mind right now is full of unrealistic desires and fantasies. So, I decided to 
use the following explanation. 

Poor Nagato is the victim of Haruhi's unreasonable occupation of the Literature Club room. She 
was very troubled at not being able to hold activities for her own club, so she came to me for 
help. She asked me if there was any way to make Haruhi give up the Literature Club room and 
go somewhere else. I was moved by her sincerity, so I decided to help the poor girl, and 
discussed it with her in a place where Haruhi wouldn't find out about it. As we talked about what 
to do in the classroom after Haruhi had left, Nagato fainted as a result of her anemia. I managed 
to catch her before she fell to the floor, and then you came barging in. It's really nothing! 


Yeah right! 



He even kicked me after saying that. Damn it! It took me a long time to come up with such a 
perfect cover story! I can't believe I couldn't fool him! 

"Let's say I believe that bullshit; I still don't think you're normal. You actually managed to have 
the nearly unsociable Nagato Yuki come to you for help, and that's really something." 

"Please, is Nagato really that famous?" 

"Besides, you're Suzumiya's subordinate. If you're a normal high schooler, then I'm as normal as 
a flea." 

Then I asked, "Taniguchi, do you have any superpowers?" 

"Wha-?" 

The already foolish look on his face went up a notch. He looked like a nanpa, the kind young 
schoolgirls have to be careful of. 

He said, "I see, so even you aren't immune to Suzumiya's toxins... Though we don't spend a lot of 
time together, you really are a nice person. So please try not to stick too close to me; I don't want 
to be infected with Suzumiya's virus as well." 

I punched Taniguchi softly, causing him to laugh uncontrollably. Ha, if this guy's an esper, then 
from today, I'm the Secretary-General of the United Nations. 


As I reached the stairs leading to the school entrance, I was sort of grateful to Taniguchi for 
having a conversation with me, as the heat had cooled down after talking to him. 

In such hot weather, even Haruhi could only lie exhausted on her desk, looking sorrowfully at 
the hills in the distance. 

"Kyon, I'm hot!" 

Really? So am I. 

"Fan me with your book." 

"Instead of fanning someone else, I'd rather fan myself. I don't have enough energy early in the 
morning to help you." 


Haruhi remained lying lazily on the desk, without her usual pompous and articulate aura. 



"What do you think Mikuru-chan should wear next?" 

After bunny girl and maid costumes would be wait a minute, there's going to be another 

costume ! ? 

"Should it be cat ears? Or a nurse? Maybe she should dress up as a queen this time?" 

Images of Asahina flashed through my mind: of her blushing furiously with her small figure 
wriggling and being forced to wear all sorts of costumes. I'm beginning to get dizzy. Ah, she's 
just too cute. 

Haruhi seemed to guess what I was thinking and scowled at me. She then lightly flipped her hair 
behind her ears. 

"You look like an idiot," Haruhi decided. 

Hey, weren't you the one bringing up the subject? But perhaps she was right, so there's no point 
in arguing with her. 

While fanning the neck of her uniform with a textbook, she blurts out, "I'm so bored!" 

Haruhi's mouth was perfectly like a heno-ji. She looked like a comic book character. 


Even under the intense radiation of the sun's rays, we managed to survive the hellish afternoon 
PE session. After class, everyone was cursing "Damn that Okabe! Having us run a marathon for 
two whole hours!", while taking off our PE uniforms, which had become pieces of wet cloth, in 
the Sixth Class room, before returning to the Fifth Class room. 

Most of the girls had already changed, but as the last session was homeroom, there were some 
who belonged to sports clubs who remained dressed in their PE uniforms for their after-school 
activities. Yet what puzzled me was why Haruhi, who was not associated with any sports club, 
was also dressed in her PE uniform. 

"It's too hot!" 

That's right, that's her reason. 

"What does it matter? I'm still going to have to change when I get to the club room! Not to 
mention I'm on duty this week, and I can move better in this." 


Haruhi held her chin with her hand and looked out at the gathering rain clouds outside. 



That's not a bad idea. 


Having a PE uniform as the next cosplay theme isn't a bad idea! What? 'Cosplay' isn't the right 
word? I don't know what she's up to, but right now she's trying her best cosplaying as a high 
school girl ! 

"Just what on earth are you thinking about?" 

Haruhi's accurate guess made me wonder if she could read minds. 

"Before I arrive at the club room, I forbid you from doing anything funny to Mikuru-chan." 
Does that mean I can do something funny to her after you arrive? 

I kept that thought to myself and I raised my arms roughly like a criminal at the point of a 
sheriffs gun in a Western movie. 


As usual, I knocked first and waited for a reply before entering. Like a doll sitting on a chair, a 
cute maid greeted me with the brightest of smiles, like a sunflower greeting the sun. Ah, I feel so 
warm! 

Nagato sat by the table reading her book, like a Camellia blossoming in spring. Argh, what kind 
of comparisons am I making? 

"I'll go and make tea." 

Putting on her headband, Asahina went to the side of the rusty table and carefully placed the tea 
leaves into the teapot. 

I sat in the commander's seat, happily watching Asahina busying herself, when I suddenly 
thought of something. 

I quickly turned on the computer and waited for the hard disk to boot. Once the screen appeared, 
I opened a file and entered the password "MIKURU". As expected, the processing speed was 
unbelievable on the Computer Study Group's new model. In an instant, Asahina's maid costume 
images appeared on the screen. 

After I made sure Asahina was busy brewing tea, I enlarged one of the images again and again. 

That image was from the time Asahina was being forced into sexy poses by Haruhi. Her 
seductive cleavage could be seen, and there on her enticing left breast was a little black mark. I 



highlighted that mark and enlarged it further; the image was a bit fuzzy, but sure enough, there 
was a star-shaped birthmark. 

"So that's the one." 

"Did you find something?" 

Before Asahina placed the teacup on the desk, I swiftly closed all the image files. I'm pretty 
meticulous when it comes to this stuff. Of course, by the time Asahina came by my side, she 
would find nothing on the screen. 

"Huh, what's this? What's inside this "MIKURU" file?" 

Oh no! I was too careless! 

"Why does that file have my name? What's inside it? Let me see, c'mon! Let me see!" 

"Er, what's inside... huh? I wonder? I don't think there's anything. Yup, that's it, there's nothing 
inside." 

"Liar!" 

Asahina cheerfully stuck out her arm and leaned over me as she tried to grab the mouse from my 
right hand. No way, Jose! I held onto the mouse, refusing to let go. Asahina then draped her soft 
body over me, trying to crawl over my shoulder. I could smell her sweet scent close to my face. 

"Asahina-san, can you please let me go..." 

"C'mon, just a peek!" 

Asahina, who was placing her left hand on my shoulder while reaching out for the mouse with 
her right, was now completely on me; I felt the situation was going from bad to worse. 

Her sweet laughter softly trickled into my ear. Unable to resist such temptation, my hand 
released its grasp, and at this moment... 

"What are you two doing?" 

We were frozen by an icy, minus 273 degree Celsius voice. Haruhi, wearing her PE uniform and 
carrying her bag, had a scary expression as though she had just witnessed her dad assaulting an 
innocent girl. 

The next instant, the stunned Asahina began to move. She clumsily got off my back, retreated 
slowly, and then sat slowly on the chair like an ASIMO robot whose batteries were nearly dead. 
Her pale face was now close to tears. 



Haruhi made a "humph", and strode to the desk glancing down at me. 


"So, you're interested in maid costumes?" 

"What are you trying to say?" 

"We need to change." 

Suit yourself! I'm just going to quietly sip the tea Asahina brewed for me. 

"Didn't I say we need to change?" 

So? 

"SO GET OUT!!!" 

I was pretty much kicked out and fell on the corridor, with the door behind me banging shut. 
"What the hell was that for!?" 

I didn't even have time to put down my cup. I wiped the spilled tea off my shirt with my fingers 
and then leaned on the door. 

That's funny. Something's not right. 

"Ah, that's right!" 

Normally Haruhi would openly change clothes in the classroom, but now she's actually driven 
me from the room. 

It seems she's begun to change. Perhaps she's reached the age where she becomes embarrassed 
by such stuff? Because the guys in Fifth Class would always rush out of the classroom once the 
PE session bell rings, no one's really noticed that she's changed. Oh yeah, the person who got the 
guys into this habit of rushing out before PE, Asakura, is no longer with us. 

I sat outside the door for a while. The sound of clothes slithering had stopped, but I still hadn't 
heard anyone calling me in. And so I sat and waited for ten whole minutes. 

"Please come in..." 

Asahina's small voice came from behind the door. As the impeccable maid opened the door for 
me, beyond her shoulders I saw Haruhi sitting gloomily at the desk with her white legs on the 
table. She wore a pair of long bunny ears on her head while wearing that nostalgic bunny girl 
suit. Maybe she couldn't be bothered because she wasn't wearing her cuffs or necktie. She wasn't 
even wearing any stockings. 



Though the arms and the back are a bit cool, this costume is actually quite tight. 


Having said that, Haruhi picked up her teacup and drank her tea as though she were enjoying it, 
while Nagato went on reading her book. 

Being surrounded by a maid and a bunny girl, I didn't know how to react. If I brought these two 
girls out to attract customers, I'd definitely make a profit. As I was thinking this... 

"Whoa, what's this?" 

Koizumi suddenly let out a strange noise as he greeted everyone with his smile. 

"Is there a costume party today? Apologies for not wearing one today." 

Cut the crap, you don't want to make things any more complicated. 

"Mikuru-chan, you sit here." 

Haruhi pointed to the chair ahead of her. Asahina sat obediently in front, looking terrified of the 
scary Haruhi. I wondered what Haruhi was going to do, only to see her making a ponytail with 
Asahina's brown curly hair. 

At first glance, it seemed like an elder sister tidying her younger sister's hair. But since Asahina 
was petrified while Haruhi's expression was blank, it made what was supposed to be a warm 
scene very awkward. Apparently Haruhi was only trying to make a ponytail for Asahina the 
maid, and that was all. 

I looked at Koizumi, who was smiling the whole time while looking at this scene, and said 
finally, 

"Wanna play Othello?" 

"Sure, I haven't played for ages." 

As black and white fought for control of the board, (I never thought that Koizumi, who could 
turn into a glowing sphere, would be so lousy at board games) Haruhi tied a ponytail with 
Asahina's hair, then loosened it, then tied two ponytails, and a hairbun... 

(Each time Haruhi touched Asahina, she would tremble all over) while Nagato continued 
indulging herself in her book. 

I'm getting more and more confused as to what this gathering is all about! 



That's right, that day we conducted our SOS Brigade activities peacefully. Nothing associated 
with aliens from a different dimension, time travelers from the future, blue giants, or red glowing 
spheres happened at that time. No one wanted to do anything special, nor did anyone know what 
they should have been doing. We just allowed ourselves to ride on the flow of time, living our 
high school life idly. Everything seemed perfectly normal. 

Even though I was dissatisfied with such a normal life, I'd always tell myself, "Why think so 
much? You've got so much time." And then I would once again look forward to the next day. 

Even then, I was quite happy. I came aimlessly to this club room and watched Asahina work 
busily like a real maid, Nagato sit like a Buddha statue, Koizumi with his bright smile, and 
Haruhi with her mood swings. All these things gave off an aura of complete normality, yet all 
these had become part of my surprisingly satisfying high school life. Though I've had the out-of- 
reality experiences of a classmate trying to murder me and seeing fierce monsters appearing in a 
gray world, I was not certain that they were not figments of my imagination, a result of 
hypnotism, or even some hallucination. 

I was still sort of pissed at Haruhi for dragging me into her club, but from a deeper perspective, it 
was only because of her that I could hang out peacefully with such interesting people. Putting 
aside the question of "Why me?", maybe someday there'd be other normal humans like me who 
wanted to join this club. 

Yes, I'd been thinking about this problem for some time now. 

Anyone would have thought about this, right? 

Yet there's still someone who has never thought about this. 

That's right, that someone is Suzumiya Haruhi. 


That night, after having dinner and a bath, and finishing my revision of tomorrow's English 
lesson, I looked at the time and discovered it was time for bed. I lay on my bed and opened the 
thick hardback book Nagato had stuffed into my arms. I thought a quick read wouldn't hurt, so I 
casually read the first few pages. The story was surprisingly interesting, so I continued page after 
page. You really have to read through one to understand how enjoyable a book can be. Reading's 
not so bad after all! 

Yet it's impossible to finish such a thick book in one night, so I put down the book after reading a 
very long monologue by one of the protagonists. Sleep overcame me, and after placing the 
bookmark with Nagato's handwriting into the book, I switched off the lights and crept 
underneath my blanket. In a few minutes, I was in dreamland. 



Do you know why humans have dreams? Sleeping is divided into Rapid Eye Movement (REM) 
and Non Rapid Eye Movement (NREM), and they go in periodic cycles. NREM occurs for the 
first few hours after a person falls asleep, with the brain usually in a stasis-like state during this 
stage. The stage in which the body is unconscious, while the brain becomes slightly active is 
known as REM, and dreams will occur in this stage. By morning, REM will have increased in 
frequency, meaning almost everyone will dream until they wake up. I dream every night, but as I 
usually wake up late every time, I'm in such a hurry to go to school that I usually forget what I've 
dreamed. Yet sometimes I'll suddenly remember a long forgotten dream I had years ago. It's 
really amazing how a human's memories are structured. 

Alright, enough casual talk. Actually, I don't give a damn. 

I felt someone slapping my face. Go away! I'm tired! Don't disturb my dreams! 

" Kyon.” 

The alarm clock hadn't even rung yet. Even if it had, I would have turned it off at once, and it 
was still some time before mom would send my sister to drag me out of bed. 

"Wake up already." 

No! I want to sleep some more. I don't have time for strange dreams. 

"I said wake up! Can't you hear me?" 

The hands around my neck now shook me ceaselessly. I finally opened my eyes when I felt the 
back of my head banging against the hard floor. 

Hard floor? 

I sat upright, looking confused. Haruhi was looking down at me and backed off to avoid 
bumping our heads together. 

"You finally awake?" 

Kneeling beside me was Haruhi in her sailor uniform. Her white face displayed an expression of 
anxiety. 


Do you know where this is? 



Of course I do; we're at North High, the school we go to, and right now we're at the staircase 
ahead of the shoe lockers by the school entrance. There were no lights on, and the school at night 
appeared gray before us 

No, something's wrong. 

There was no night sky above. 

Just a wide gray horizon. A monotonous sky. There was no moon or stars, not even a single 
cloud. Only a sky as gray as the concrete walls. 

The world is covered in silence and darkness. 

This is a Sealed Reality. 

I slowly got up. I was amazed that I was not wearing my pajamas, but my school uniform. 

"When I woke up, I found myself here, then you by my side. What's going on here? Why're we at 
school?" 

Haruhi asked in an abnormally soft voice. I didn't answer her at once, instead reaching my arms 
out to feel my way. From the pain of pinching the back of my hand, to the feel of my uniform on 
my body, it didn't feel like a dream. I pulled two of my hairs out. I found out that really hurts. 

"Haruhi, are we the only ones here?" 

"Yeah, I was supposed to be asleep under my blanket. Why did we appear here? And the sky 
looks strange " 

"Have you seen Koizumi?" 

"No why'd you mention him?" 

"Nothing, just asking." 

If this Sealed Reality was created by a quake in the dimensional faultline or by external factors, 
there ought to be a glowing giant and Koizumi in here as well. 

"Anyway, let's leave the school now! Maybe we'll run into someone." 

"How come you don't look anxious at all?" 

I am most certainly anxious, especially seeing that you're here as well. Isn't this a playground for 
the giants you create? Or am I being oversensitive and just dreaming all of this? All alone with 

Haruhi in an empty Reality If Sigmund Freud were here, he could have analyzed all this for 

me! 



I remained at a distance from Haruhi as we walked towards the school entrance, when we were 
blocked by an invisible wall. I still remember the elastic feel of this wall. It could be pushed 
inwards a bit, but soon after, another harder wall would block any attempts to penetrate further. 

" What is this?" 

Haruhi reached her arms out and tried to push this invisible wall, while asking with her eyes 
wide open. I walked along the track field and traced the wall. 

It seems that we're trapped inside the school. 

"There doesn't seem to be a way out of the school." 

I couldn't feel any breeze. It was as though even the air had stopped flowing. 

"Let's try the back entrance!" 

"Oh yeah, is there any way we can contact anyone? Let's look for a phone. I didn't bring my cell 
phone." 

If this was the Sealed Reality Koizumi told me about, then finding a phone would be useless. 
Despite that, we still decided to go inside the school building to have a look. There should be a 
phone in the staff room. 

The school looked eerie in the dark with all the lights off. We passed by the shoe lockers and 
silently entered the school building. Along the way, we turned on the lights for the first floor, and 
the ceiling lamps lit up at once. Even though they were cold, artificial lights, they were enough to 
elicit a sigh of relief from me and Haruhi. 

After making sure there was no one in the classrooms on that floor, we headed to the staff room. 
Naturally, the staff room was locked, so I picked up a nearby fire extinguisher, smashed the 
window open, and entered through there. 

" Doesn't seem to work." 

Haruhi held the phone to her ear, but could hear nothing. She tried to dial some numbers, but 
nothing came of it. 

We left the staff room, turning on all the lamps along the way, and went up the stairs, since 
Haruhi had suggested we return to our classroom. As the Fifth Class room for first years was 
located at the top floor, maybe we could figure out something by looking down from above. 

Haruhi kept holding onto my jacket as we walked along the corridor. Don't count on me; I don't 
have any supernatural powers at all. If you're that scared, then grab onto my arm! It looks more 
natural that way! 



Idiot! 


Haruhi scowled at me, but her fingers never let go of my jacket. 

There was no change in the Fifth Class room; it was just as we'd left it after school. 

" Kyon, look " 

Haruhi went silent after walking towards the windows. I walked to her side and looked down at 
the situation. 

All around was a deep gray world. Looking down from the fourth floor at the top of the hill, I 
could even see the horizon beyond the shore. It was all darkness within the panorama, without 
even a single light on. It was like the end of the world. 

"What is this place " 

It wasn't the whole population that disappeared, but rather, we who had disappeared. It seemed 
that we had stumbled onto this Sealed Reality by accident. 

"This feels strange." 

Haruhi touched her shoulder and murmured. 


As we didn't know where else to go, we returned to the club room where we had just spent the 
afternoon before. As I'd already stolen the keys from the staff room, we were able to unlock the 
door and enter. 

Both of us breathed a sigh of relief at returning to a familiar, well-lit room. 

We turned on the radio, but we couldn't even hear any static. The club room was so quiet that 
only the sound of me pouring tea could be heard. I'm not that interested in changing tea leaves, 
so I brewed the tea using thoroughly overused and tasteless tea leaves. Haruhi stood beside me 
gazing vividly at the gray world outside. 

"You want some tea?" 

"No." 

I took my teacup, pulled out a chair, and sat down. I took a sip. Sigh, the tea brewed by Asahina 
is so much better than this. 



"Just what is going on here!? I don't get it! What is this place? Why am I here?" 

Haruhi stood by the window and faced outside; her silhouette looked very frail. 

"And, why am I with you of all people?" 

"How the hell should I know!?" Haruhi just flicked her hair and scowled at my response. 

"I'm going outside to have a look." She said and proceeded to leave the room. Just as I was about 
to stand up as well 

"You stay here, I'll be right back." 

She left the room right away after saying that. That is so like Haruhi to do that! While hearing 
Haruhi's energetic footsteps disappearing and sipping my tasteless warm tea, that thing appeared. 

It was a small glowing red sphere. At first it was the size of a table tennis ball, then slowly the 
sphere grew larger, shining like a firefly before finally taking on a humanoid shape. 

"Koizumi, is that you?" 

Before me was a glowing humanoid, but I could not see Koizumi's appearance clearly, including 
his eyes, nose, and mouth. 

"Hi there." A relaxed voice came from within the glowing object. 

"Took you long enough! I thought you would appear in your human form " 

"Things are getting a bit complicated, so it's going to take some time to explain. I'll be honest; 
this is an abnormal event!" The red light flickered a bit. "If it were a normal Sealed Reality, I 
could have penetrated easily, but not this time. I had to appear in this incomplete form, and as I 
needed some help from my companions before I could finally enter here, I can't even remain in 
this state for too long. Our powers are disappearing slowly, even as we speak." 

"Just what's going on? Is it just me and Haruhi here?" 

"Yes," Koizumi answered. 

"This means what we had feared is finally happening. Suzumiya-san has grown tired of this 
reality, and she has decided to create a new one." 


"Our superiors are now in total panic. No one knows what the world will become when its god 
has disappeared. Though it's possible the world will survive as long as Suzumiya-san decides to 
have mercy upon it, it is also possible that it'll vanish in an instant." 



"What are you trying to say ?" 

"To put it simply," the red light now flickered like a flame, "You and Suzumiya-san have now 
disappeared from our world. This world is not a Sealed Reality but rather a brand new reality 
created by Suzumiya-san. The Sealed Realities we've seen before were probably just drills before 
she decided to re-create the world for real." 

Such an interesting joke, but I don't know how to laugh now. Ha ha ha. 

"I'm not joking. This world is probably closest to the world which Suzumiya-san desires. We're 
still not sure what kind of world she desires, but we should have an answer to that soon." 

"Let's leave that aside, the real problem is why am I here?" 

"Do you really not know? You are the person chosen by Suzumiya-san. You are the only person 
in our world that Suzumiya-san wants to be with. I thought you'd have discovered that by now." 
The light around Koizumi now glimmered like a torch running out of batteries, its brightness 
clearly diminishing. "I'm close to my limit now. At this rate, I'll never be able to see you again; 
on the other hand though, I'm kind of relieved since I no longer have to go hunting for those 
Avatars anymore." 

"Must I live alone with Haruhi in such a gray world?" 

"In this world, you're like Adam and Eve. Just work hard on re-populating the world, and it'll be 
fine." 


" I'm so gonna beat the crap out of you." 

"Just kidding! Right now this sealed state is probably only temporary, but very soon it'll become 
similar to the world you know. Yet this world will be completely different from the world we're 
from. As of right now, this world could be considered as the real world, while the original reality 
ought to be considered a Sealed Reality. As for what differences there are between these two 
worlds, unfortunately we do not know. If I'm fortunate enough to be reborn in the new reality, 

I'm counting on you to show me around." 

At this moment, Koizumi the glowing humanoid object began to slowly disintegrate and then, 
like a star running out of fuel, now shrank to its original table tennis ball size. 

"Is it impossible for us to return to the original world?" 

"As long as Suzumiya-san wishes for it, it might still be possible. I only knew you for a short 

while; it's a pity really, but I did enjoy my time with the SOS Brigade Ah, yes, I nearly forgot, 

I have to relay both Asahina Mikuru and Nagato Yuki's messages to you." 


Before Koizumi disappeared completely, he left this message. 



"Asahina Mikuru asked me to apologize in her stead: she said, 'I'm sorry, it's all my fault.' Also, 
Nagato Yuki tells you to 'Remember to turn on the computer.'" 


After the message, he vanished like a candle flame blown out by the wind. 

I don't know why Asahina had to apologize to me. Had Asahina done something wrong to me? 
But I decided not to think about that now; rather, I followed Nagato's request and switched on 
the computer. After the hard disk makes a beep sound, the OS trademark should start appearing 

on the screen That's strange, why is nothing being shown? The OS screen which was 

supposed to appear after a few seconds didn't appear; the screen was pitch black with only a 
white typing cursor flashing in the upper left corner of the screen. Then, the cursor started 
moving silently, and a line of cold words appeared. 


YUKI.N > Can you read this? 


I was stunned for a moment, and then I pulled the keyboard closer and started typing. 

' Yes . ' 

YUKI.N > Right now I have not completely lost contact with the world you are 
in . 

But that is only a matter of time, since the disconnection should occur very 
soon . 

If that is true, this will be our final conversation. 

'What should I do?' 

YUKI.N > I do not know either. The abnormal data spurt has disappeared 
completely over here. 

The Integrated Data Sentient Entity is very disappointed with this, 

because they will lose the possibility to evolve. 

'What do you mean by the possibility to evolve? Just how is Haruhi 
evolving? ' 

YUKI.N > Being highly sentient means being able to process data quickly and 
accurately . 

Sentient organic lifeforms are limited by the excessive inaccurate and 
mixed-up data streams 

caused by their physical bodies, and are unable to process data quickly and 
accurately . 

So after evolving to a certain stage, organic lifeforms will cease to 
evolve . 

'Is it possible to evolve even without a physical body?' 

YUKI.N > The Integrated Data Sentient Entity is also created from data. 

They too had believed that their ability to process data would increase 
infinitely 

until the universe overheated itself. But they were wrong. 

As with the universe having an edge, their evolution also has a limit, 

at least for sentient entities relying on data to survive. 

'What about Suzumiya?' 

YUKI.N > Suzumiya Haruhi possesses the ability to create massive amounts of 
data out of nothing. 



That is the ability that the Integrated Data Sentient Entity doesn't have. 
She can release data that could never be processed by a human, 
a mere organic lifeform, in its lifetime. The Integrated Data Sentient 
Entity believes 

if this data-creating ability is analyzed, then they will be able 
to find clues to how to auto-evolve. 

The cursor flashed momentarily. Perhaps Nagato was hesitating on what words to use. The next 
second, the words flowed like water. 

YUKI.N > I'm betting everything on you. 

'Betting on me for what?' 

YUKI.N > I hope that you can both return to this world. 

Suzumiya Haruhi is an important observation target, 

an important treasure that might only appear once in this universe. 

Besides that, I myself also wish for you to return. 

The color of the words began to fade as the electricity supply got weaker. The cursor continued 
to type out words. 

YUKI.N > Let us go to the library again next time. 

The words grew darker; even trying to adjust the screen brightness didn't help. Finally, Nagato 
typed the following two words. 

YUKI.N > sleeping beauty 


Brrr The sound of the hard disk spinning had me jumping from my seat. The light on the CPU 
flickered, and the familiar OS trademark screen appeared. The sound of the computer fan 
spinning was all that could be heard in this world. 

"What should I do? Koizumi! Nagato!" 

I sighed deeply and turned my head despondently towards the window. 


A blue light shone from outside the window. 



A glowing giant now stood in the school courtyard. Because it was so close, it looked like a huge 
blue wall. 


Haruhi rushed into the room. 

"Kyon! Something's appeared!" 

Haruhi saw that she was about to bump into me, who was standing by the window, and quickly 
stopped and stood beside me. 

"What is that? It's huge! Is it a monster? It doesn't seem like an illusion." 

Haruhi sounded very excited. Her depressed anxiety from a while ago had disappeared. Right 
now, her eyes glimmered with enthusiasm. No fear could be found in them. 

"You think that's an alien? Or it could be a superweapon created by the ancients, waking up from 
its long slumber? Is that thing the reason we can't escape from school?" 

The blue wall moved. The image of the giant smashing the buildings with ease flashed through 
my mind. I hurriedly grabbed Haruhi's hand and bolted out of the club room. 

"Wait! Wait up, what're you doing!?" 

As we rushed to the corridor, nearly falling down, a loud tremor vibrated through the air; I 
quickly pushed Haruhi down onto the floor and shielded her with my body. The clubs complex 
shook violently. The sound and vibration of a hard, heavy object stomping on the ground was 
transmitted to my ears. From this I knew the giant's target was not the clubs complex but rather 
the school complex opposite. 

I grabbed Haruhi, who was so shocked that her mouth opened and closed like a goldfish, and 
started running. Amazingly, Haruhi obediently followed me and ran. 

My palms were getting sweaty. So were Haruhi's. 

The old clubs complex was devoid of dust. With all my strength, I ran with Haruhi in tow 
towards the staircase. The sound of the giant causing more destruction could be heard. 

I ran down the stairs while feeling Haruhi's body heat being transmitted between our palms. 

After crossing the courtyard, we headed past the slope and towards the trackfield. At this 
moment I took a quick glance at Haruhi. I might have been mistaken, but she seemed quite 
happy. It was like seeing a child waking up on Christmas morning and finding out the presents 
she had wanted all along were now by her bedside. 

After running quite a distance from the school buildings, we turned and looked upwards, and 
discovered how huge the giant was. The giant inside the Sealed Reality Koizumi showed me was 
just as huge as this, almost as tall as a building. 



The giant waved its hand, and the school building collapsed. As the four story complex was 
already ripped open from its previous strike, it now fell easily. The debris fell and scattered in all 
directions along with the deafening noise it created. 

We ran frantically to the center of the two hundred meter trackfield before stopping. An 
unbelievable blue giant has now appeared in the dark monotonous school. 

If you want to take pictures, you should be taking these, and not pictures of the president of the 
Computer Study Group groping Asahina's breasts, and definitely not pictures of Asahina wearing 
all sorts of costumes. The website ought to have pictures like what we're seeing now! 

As I was thinking about this, Haruhi quickly said in my ear, 

"Do you think he'll attack us? I don't think he's evil at all, what do you think?" 

"I dunno." 

As I answered Haruhi, I was thinking at the same time about what Koizumi told me when he 
brought me into that Sealed Reality. If we let these "Avatars" continue their rampage, then after 
the destruction, the Sealed Reality will replace the real world, meaning this gray world will 
replace the world we came from, and then 

What will become of our world? 

According to what Koizumi just told me, Haruhi seems to be creating a brand new world. Will 
the Asahina and Nagato I know be in this new world? Or will it be a surreal world where these 
"Avatars" walk around freely, and aliens, time travelers, and espers become commonplace? 

If the world really becomes like that, what role will I be playing? 

Argh, forget it, it's useless trying to think anymore, because I just don't get it. I don't get what 
Haruhi's thinking, and I don't possess any telepathic power that allows me to read what others 
think. 

At this instant, I heard Haruhi speaking to me, 

"What exactly is going on here? Whether it's this world or that giant, it's all very strange!" 

Those things were all created by you, missy! I should be the one asking, why'd you drag me into 
all of this!? What Adam and Eve? That is just stupid! I won't believe in such a crappy story! 
Never! 

"Don't you want to return to the original world?" 


I asked calmly. 



What did you say? 


Haruhi turned towards me. Her face was smoothly white even in this gray world, and her 
glimmering eyes were now shrouded in darkness. 

"We can't just stay here forever! There's not a single shop, so there's nowhere to eat when we get 
hungry. Besides, the school's surrounded by an invisible wall: there's no way out of here. At this 
rate we'll starve to death. " 

"Hmm, it is all strange, but I don't care. Things will eventually get sorted out. For some reason, I 
just feel very happy." 

"Then what about the SOS Brigade? You created that club! You're just gonna leave it?" 

"I really don't give a damn anymore, because I'm already experiencing something exciting now; 
there's no need for me to go out and search for mysterious events." 

"But, I want to return to the original world." 

The giant momentarily stopped its demolition of the school. 

"Before we ended up in this strange situation, I didn't realize how much I liked my life the way it 
was. There I have the idiot Taniguchi, Kunikida, Koizumi, Nagato, and Asahina, and even the 
long-vanished Asakura." 

" What are you talking about?" 

"I really want to see those friends again. I have many things I want to tell them." 

Haruhi lowered her head, and then continued after a while, 

"We'll see them; this world won't be forever covered in darkness. Once morning comes, the sun 
will come up. I'm sure of that." 

"It's not like that. This world is not what you think it is. I really want to see those friends in the 
original world." 

"I don't get what you're talking about." 

Haruhi scowled at me, like a kid who's had her treasured present snatched away, revealing her 
anger and sadness. 

"Aren't you sick and tired of that boring world as well? That world is so normal that there's 
nothing special at all. Don't you want to experience something interesting as well?" 


I used to think like that. 



The giant started moving. He kicked off the remaining parts of the school complex and headed 
for the courtyard. On the way, he swiped at the school corridor with his arm, then gave the clubs 
complex a huge kick. The school is slowly being flattened, including our club room. 

I looked over Haruhi's shoulder and was astonished to find other glowing blue walls around. 

One, two, three when I got to five, I decided to give up counting. 

Without the red glowing spheres in the way, the glowing blue giants now began their destruction 
of this gray world without delay. I don't get what's so interesting about all this destruction. Every 
time they moved their arms and legs, everything that they touched disappeared instantly. 

Moments later, half the school was gone. 

I couldn't tell how large this Sealed Reality was, and I didn't know if this dimension would 
expand and become another reality. At this moment, my mind was full of uncertainty. If at this 
instant, an old drunkard sitting beside me in a train had said to me, "Let me tell you something, 
but don't tell anyone! I'm actually an alien," I would have believed him right away. Because the 
number of mysterious events I've experienced has now tripled compared to a month ago. 

What exactly could I do? If it were a month ago maybe I wouldn't have thought of anything, but 
right now I believed I could. Because I've already received a few hints. 

Once I'd decided, I said the following, 

"Haruhi, these last few days, I've gone through some very interesting things. Though you may 
not know it, there are all sorts of people who are very concerned about you. It's not ridiculous to 
say that the world literally revolves around you. Everyone believes you are a very special person, 
and they've tried to back up those beliefs with actions. You may not know it, but the world is 
headed in a very interesting direction." 

As I grabbed onto Haruhi's shoulders, I realized I was still holding her hand, while Haruhi 
looked at me with a face that said, "What's gotten into you?" 

And then, she moved her eyes away from me and towards the rampaging blue giants, with a 
matter-of-fact expression. 

Looking at her young and smooth face, I remembered Nagato's "evolution possibility", Asahina's 
"temporal distortion", and Koizumi treating Haruhi as "God". But as for me, what is Haruhi to 
me? Just what do I treat her as? 

Haruhi is Haruhi, what else is there to say? I didn't intend to just answer like that though. Yet, I 
didn't have a definite answer. I knew it'd come to this, right? If you had pointed at the classmate 
behind me and asked, "What does she represent to you?" - how do you think I would answer? 

This, I'm sorry. I'm going in circles again! To me, Haruhi's not just an ordinary classmate, 

and certainly not any "evolution possibility", "temporal distortion" or even "God". 



The giant turned towards the trackfield. He's not supposed to have any eyes, yet I could vividly 
feel his vision. He took one step in our direction. His single step was most likely a couple of 
meters, or he wouldn't have shortened the distance between us so quickly despite walking so 
slowly! 

I got it! Didn't Asahina say something about it? That prophecy! And Nagato's last message. 

Snow White and Sleeping Beauty. Please, even I know what Sleeping Beauty means! What is the 
similarity between these two stories? In our dire situation, the answer was practically shouting 
out loud. 

Man, this is so lame. 

It's way too lame! Asahina, Nagato. I'll never accept such a development! Never! 

My rationality insisted on that. But humans were never a lifeform that relied only on reason to 
survive. Maybe they needed a bit of what Nagato called "mixed-up data". I let go of Haruhi's 
hand, grabbed her shoulder, and turned her towards me. 

"What now " 

"You know, I really like you in a ponytail." 

"What?" 

"I don't know when, but since then, I can't stop thinking of you in a ponytail. I think that suits 
you best." 


"What're you trying to pull?" 



£3 



I ignored Haruhi's protests and kissed her on the lips... I grabbed her hand and held on tightly, not 
wanting to let go yet. 


Her black eyes resisted me. I ignored Haruhi's protests and kissed her on the lips. It's more polite 
to close your eyes at times like this, so I closed mine. And so, I didn't know what expression 
Haruhi had. Were her eyes open from the shock? Or did she close her eyes as well? Or did she 
try to raise her hand and slap me? But even if she did slap me it didn't matter, since I was betting 
everything on this. If anyone else did this to Haruhi, they would know how I felt then. I grabbed 
her hand and held on tightly, not wanting to let go yet. 

I could still hear the rumbling in the distance; it seemed the giant was still destroying the 
campus. Just as I was thinking that, I suddenly lost my balance and fell downwards, and then 
everything turned upside down. There was a hard impact upon my left side. No matter what I 
did, I couldn't keep my balance. When I tried to sit up and open my eyes, I saw a familiar ceiling 
above my head and was stunned. 


I was in my room, and turning around, I realized I had fallen out of bed onto the floor. Of course, 
I was wearing my pajamas. Half of the messed-up blanket lay on the floor. I placed my hand 
behind my back, opening my mouth like an idiot. 

It was some time before I could think again. 

Under a half dreamlike state, I slowly stood up, opened the window, and looked outside. I saw a 
few twinkling stars and the shining street lamps. I confirmed there were lights coming from other 
people's windows and occasional silhouettes moving behind them. 

Was it a dream? Had I been dreaming all of this? 

I had a dream where I fell into a surreal world with a girl I knew, and then ended up kissing her! 
A dream so easy to understand that even Sigmund Freud would laugh out loud. 

Urgh, I really wanted to hang myself right away. 

Maybe I should be grateful that this country has outlawed guns, or I would've grabbed a fully 
automatic gun and aimed it at my head without hesitation. If it were with Asahina, then I could 
have at least gotten some sort of well-detailed personality analysis from this dream, but I had to 
dream of myself kissing Haruhi, of all people! What on earth was my subconscious thinking!? 

I sat wearily on the floor and held my head, thinking if this were all a dream, why did it feel so 
real? The sweaty right hand, and the warmth left on my lips 



Does this. ..does this mean that this is no longer the original world? Is this a brand new world 

created by Haruhi? Is there a way for me to confirm this? 

There isn't, no matter how hard I thought. Or rather, I never wanted to think about such a 
problem. If I had to admit that all of that was a dream because my brain was out of order, then I'd 
rather believe that the world had been destroyed. Besides, right now I'm in denial. 

I looked at my alarm clock. Two thirty in the morning. 

I'm going back to sleep. 

I pulled my blanket over my head, asking my already clear mind to give me some deep sleep. 


I couldn't sleep. 

That's why right now I'm so exhausted that I almost need to crawl in order to climb up the slope. 
This is killing me, to be honest. I'm just glad I didn't meet Taniguchi on the way, or I'd be forced 
to hear him go on and on. The sun continued to release the heat from its endless nuclear fusion. 
Mr Sunshine, I beg of you, can't you occasionally take a break? I'm going to fry to death! 

Refusing to come when I needed it, the sleep demon now circled around my head when I least 
wanted it. If this goes on, I don't know how long I can stay awake in the first class. 

When I saw the school complex, I stopped and looked at the crummy old four story building. 

The sweaty students all crawled into the school buildings like a bunch of ants. 

I dragged my feet up the stairs, and then into the familiar first year Fifth Class room, stopping 
three steps from the window. 

There, sitting in the back by the window, I saw the back of Haruhi's head. How should I say this? 
She had her chin resting on her hands as usual and stared outside with a wooden expression. 

From her back, I could see a small tail hanging from her hair onto her shoulder. Her hair was a 
bit too short now to tie a ponytail, so I guess she only tied that randomly? 

"Yo, how's it been?" 

I placed my bag on the desk. 


Miserable! I just had a terrible nightmare last night. 



Haruhi said in a calm tone. Hey, you actually just went through a really incredible event last 
night! 

"That's why I couldn't sleep all night. I wanted to take sick leave, but then my attendance rate 
would have gotten too low." 

"I see." 

I sat down on the hard chair and studied Haruhi's face. Her hair covered the side of her face from 
her ear downwards, so I couldn't clearly see her expression. In any case, she was in a bad mood. 
At least her face told me so. 

"Say, Haruhi." 

"What?" 

I said to Haruhi, whose eyes were still staring outside, 

"You look great in that ponytail." 


Epilogue 

Epilogue 


Let me talk about what happened after that. 

That afternoon Haruhi had let her hair down to her shoulders again. She was probably sick of 
having to tie her hair up. I guess I'll have to wait until her hair grows longer before trying to 
convince her to tie a ponytail. 

On my way to the bathroom during lunch break, I met Koizumi on the corridor. 

"I should really thank you from the bottom of my heart." 

He smiled cheerfully, 

"This world has remained unchanged, and Suzumiya-san is here as usual. It seems my work will 
have to continue for a while, all thanks to you, and I'm not being sarcastic. On the other hand, it's 
also possible that this world was only created last night! In any case, it's an honor to have known 
you and Suzumiya-san." 


"Maybe we'll get to be together for some time!" Koizumi said while waving his hand towards 
me. 

"See you after school!" 

I went to the Literature Club room to have a look during lunch break, and there sat Nagato 
reading her book as usual. 

"For two and a half hours this morning, you and Suzumiya Haruhi had disappeared from this 
world." 

She opened her mouth and said this, and only this. Then she lowered her head and continued 
reading. 

"I'm reading the book you lent me now. I should be able to return it to you in a week." 

"I see." 

Her head remained lowered. 

"Can you tell me if there are many others like you on this planet?" 

"A lot." 

"Does that mean there'll be those who might attack me like Asakura did?" 

Nagato now lifted her head and looked at me. 

"I won't let them." 

I decided not to mention the library to her. 


After school in the club room, I met Asahina, who was wearing her uniform for once instead of 
her maid costume. When she saw me, she ran and embraced me. 

"I'm so glad, I can still see you " 

Asahina cried with her face buried in my chest. 


I thought you'd never (sniff) return to this (sniff) world. 



Perhaps she just realized she was embracing me because Asahina suddenly pushed me off with 
her arms at once. 

"No, you can't. If Suzumiya-san sees this, the same thing will happen again!" 

"I don't get what you're saying." 

Looking at the teary-eyed, adorable Asahina, I really wanted to be reborn. In my opinion, there 
wasn't a man in this world who wouldn't fall for such innocent looking eyes. 

"Why aren't you wearing your maid costume today?" 

"It's being washed." 

At this point, I suddenly thought of something, and pointed towards my heart. 

"Oh yeah, Asahina, you've got a star-shaped birthmark over here on your chest." 

Wiping the tears away from her eyes, Asahina looked as shocked as a dove shot by a stray bullet. 
She then slowly turned around and pulled her collar aside to take a look inside her shirt, upon 
which her face blushed red very quickly. 

"H...how did you know!? I didn't even know myself! When did you find out?" 

Asahina waved her fists and hit me nonstop while blushing furiously. 

Your future self told me so. I wonder if I should tell Asahina the truth? 

"What're you two doing?" 

Haruhi stood by the door with an astonished face, while Asahina's fist stopped in mid-air with 
her face going pale at once. Haruhi gave an evil smile, like an evil stepmother who knows that 
her stepdaughter has eaten the poisoned apple and is about to die, and lifted the paper bag she 
was carrying. 

"Mikuru-chan! You're tired of maid costumes, right? Come! Time to change!" 

Haruhi moved as swiftly as a martial arts master and grabbed Asahina, who was still petrified on 
the spot. 

"N...nooooo — !" 

Asahina screamed endlessly as Haruhi forcefully pulled off her uniform. 

"Stop moving! It's useless resisting. This time it's a nurse uniform! I think they're now called 
hospital attendants or something, but it's all the same!" 



A. ..at least lock the door! 


I had wanted to stay and enjoy the scenery, but finally decided to go outside, shutting the door. 

Although I feel sorry for Asahina, I'm really looking forward to what I'll see when the door 
reopens. 

Ah yes, and Nagato was there as well, sitting in the corner as usual, quietly reading her book. 


This time, I finally handed the SOS Brigade application form to the Student Council. If I didn't 
bribe the Student Council, there was no way they'd ever allow a club like the "Suzumiya Haruhi 
Brigade to Make the World More Exciting" to exist. 

That's why I changed the name slightly to the "Assisting the Student Council in Changing the 
World Association" (abbreviated as the SOS Brigade), and I altered the club's activities summary 
to "providing all sorts of consultation services to any problems people may encounter at school, 
and to actively participate in local community services". 

I don't know what that exactly means, but I guess it'll be OK as long as it makes sense 
grammatically. After that I'll just make some posters about those annoying consultations and 
stick them on the board. I have a feeling most of the people that come looking to us for 
consultation will probably not be for "something interesting". 


On the other hand, Haruhi's "Search for Mysterious Events" in the town continued under her 
command for the second memorable time today. According to precedent, today's activities 
should have involved wasting a whole weekend wandering around aimlessly, but today Asahina, 
Nagato, and even Koizumi all said they couldn't come as they had something important to do, so 
I ended up waiting all alone for Haruhi at the station ticket turnstiles. 

I don't know what those three were up to, or whether they genuinely had something important. 
But since they aren't normal humans in the first place, it's not surprising that they would need to 
handle some very important matters in some place I'd never heard of. 

I looked at my watch. There were still thirty minutes before the meeting time. I had stood here 
for thirty minutes already; in other words, I arrived an hour early. I did this not because I looked 
forward to today's activity, but because the SOS Brigade had an unwritten rule that whoever 
arrives last, whether they're late or not, has to pay a fine. Besides, there're only two people 
involved in today's activity. 



I lifted my head and saw a familiar figure, casually dressed. She probably never expected me to 
arrive so early, and stood stunned on the spot. She then grumpily walked towards me. I didn't 
know whether her frown had to do with today's low attendance rate, or the fact that I arrived 
earlier than her. I'll just have to ask her when we get to the cafe. Of course, Haruhi's paying. 

By then, I'll have many things I want to talk to her about, like where the SOS Brigade is going 
from now on, Asahina's costumes, trying to have her talk to other classmates for once, and 
asking her what she thinks of Sigmund Freud's psychoanalysis. 

However, I need a good topic before I can start a conversation with her. 

Ah, I've already decided what to say. That's right, I've decided 

To talk about aliens, time travelers, and espers first, of course. 



Suzumiya Haruhi: Volume Two: The Sighs of 
Suzumiya Haruhi 


Colour Illustrations 

These are color illustrations that were included in volume 2. 

Cover Page 



Inside Flap 







Prologue Flap 




Prologue 

Prologue 


Haruhi seems like the kind of person who shouldn't have any worries. But, she does. Only the 
thing that's bothering her is that "The world is too mundane." 

To her, the "Non-mundane things" are any kind of supernatural phenomena, meaning she often 
thinks things like "I can't believe there's not even half a ghost appearing before me." 

I should also let you know that the word "ghost" can be replaced with "aliens", "time-travelers", 
or "espers." However, it is common knowledge that these things only appear in fiction novels. 
They simply don't exist in reality. Which means, as long as Haruhi continues to live in this 
world, she will continue to be bothered by this fact. The world is supposed to be like this; 
nothing out of the ordinary. However, recent events in my life have made it very hard for me to 
have confidence in this fact; I'm also bothered. 

Because I know these aliens, time-travelers, and espers do exist. 


"Listen to me, I need to tell you something very important." 

"What?" 

"Haven't you always wished for the existence of aliens or time-travelers or espers?" 

"That's right. So what?" 

"In other words, the purpose of our SOS Brigade is to find these people. Right?" 

"Not only to find them, we have to be able to play together. Just finding them isn't good enough, 
I want to participate in the act, not just be part of the audience." 

"But I always wish I was watching from the sidelines... sigh, whatever. But have you ever 
thought that these aliens, time-travelers, or espers might be surprisingly close to us?" 

"Ah? What do you mean? Don't tell me you mean Yuki, Mikuru, or Itsuki? If it's them, then 
that's not really a 'surprise'." 

"Umm... actually I meant to tell you that it was them all along." 


"Are you an idiot? It can't be that easy." 

"That's true, this would be too simple by normal standards." 

"Then tell me, who's the alien?" 

"You would be very glad to hear this. Nagato Yuki is the alien. Hmm, how should I put it? 
Should be Integrated something entity... or Data something entity... something like that. 
Basically created by aliens and given a body." 

"Hm, then what about Mikuru?" 

"Asahina-san is easy to explain: she's a time-traveler. She comes from the future. There's no 
problem calling her a time-traveler right?" 

"Then how many years into the future is she from?" 

"I don't know this, she didn't tell me that." 

"Oh, I see." 

"Really?" 

"That means Itsuki is an esper? Were you planning on telling me that from the start?" 

"That is correct." 

"Ahh." 

Haruhi twitched her eyebrows while she spoke, then slowly breathed in some air, and screamed: 
"DON'T MESS WITH ME!" 


Just like that, Haruhi completely discarded the truth that took me so much effort to get out. Oh 
well, this was expected of her. Even after the three of them each used their own way to show me 
that they were indeed an alien, a time -traveler, and an esper, I still had doubts in my mind. To 
make Haruhi believe this, especially considering that she hadn't seen what I had seen, was almost 
impossible. 

But what else could I say? I had told her the absolute truth. Even though I don't look like a very 
credible guy, when I know there's no benefit to be gained from lying, I will tell the truth. 



But in fact Haruhi wasn't at fault either. If a nice guy came up to me and said "This person you 
know is actually someone unbelievable..." I believe I would also lose my temper and start yelling 
at him. If some guy said that kind of stuff to me with a straight face, I would probably think that 
his brain had been infected by some virus, or had been addled by poisonous waves. Perhaps I'd 
even feel sorry for the guy. I don't think I would continue to talk to that guy in any case. 

Hmm, right now, isn't "that guy" me? 

"Kyon, get your ears over here and listen carefully." 

Haruhi stared at me with fire in her eyes. 

"It doesn't matter whether it's an alien, a time-traveler, or a esper. They're not going to casually 
appear in front of us just like that! Do you know how precious they are? If we find them, we 
have to grab them by the neck, tie them up, and hang them up so they can't escape! The people 
that I randomly grabbed off the streets to join our club can't be that rare and precious!" 

Wow, that actually made some sense. But other than me, the other three really are blessed with 
supernatural characteristics. I'm the only normal human being. Wait a minute, did she say that 
she just grabbed random people to be in her club? 

Sigh, why does this dumb girl only have common sense when it comes to strange topics? If she 
would only believe me, everything would be much simpler. At least this bogus SOS Brigade 
could disband, since it was formed for the sole purpose of finding aliens et al for Haruhi. Once 
she finds those things, there won't be any point in keeping this club around. After that, she can 
play with those unnatural beings all she likes, while I stay to the side and add a few laughs here 
and there. I hope this happens soon, because right now I feel like a circus animal being forced to 
perform. 

However, if Haruhi had any sense of what was happening around her, I don't know what the 
world would be like. 


Ah yes. I should let you know that only two people participated in this dialogue, from the 
beginning. It happened during the second "SOS Brigade wandering around in the city (temporary 
name)" club event, when I talked with Haruhi inside the restaurant by the station. I didn't have 
any doubts that Haruhi would pay for the meal; I'd explained all that to her very naturally as I 
was sipping my coffee. But she didn't take me seriously at all. I'm fine with that though. 

Whoever believes in that stuff needs to have their brain examined. 


As for me, I didn't bother to tell her the specifics, since details in things like this would only 
cause more suspicion. Since all this was coming from me: the guy who got dragged to Nagato's 



apartment and had to listen to a long series of unclear explanations, there was no reason to 
suspect anything funny. 


"I don't ever want to hear lame jokes like this again." 

Haruhi drained all the yellow-greenish vegetable juice from her glass, and said: 

"Let's go! We can't separate into two groups today, so let's just wander around! Oh yeah, I forgot 
to bring my wallet today. Here's the bill." 

While I was still staring at the eight hundred and thirty yen bill, thinking about how to protest 
this atrocity, Haruhi grabbed my coffee and finished it. That left me with the impression that she 
wasn't going to accept any protests. She then marched out of the restaurant, and stood in front of 
the automatic door with her arms crossed. 


Half a year has already passed since then. Now that I think about it, I seem to have experienced a 
lot of strange phenomena during these past six months. SOS Brigade's official name is still "The 
Save our world by Overloading it with fun Suzumiya Haruhi's Brigade" which gives me the 
creeps. I have no idea where in the world this club brought more excitement to. I think only 
Haruhi felt whatever excitement it was supposed to bring. Also, the club's reason for existence is 
still a mystery. The original goal was something about playing with aliens, kidnapping time 
travelers, and battling alongside espers. However from Haruhi's perspective, this goal still hasn't 
been reached. 

This is all because Haruhi believes she hasn't met any aliens, time travelers or espers. Coming to 
that conclusion isn't something I can help. I've already told her the other three members' true 
identities, but she just won't believe me. So this shouldn't be my responsibility anymore, right? 

Even though the SOS Brigade has failed to reach its intended goal, thus losing its primary reason 
for existence, it still hasn't disbanded. Even now, this unrecognized organization still secretly 
exists in the Old Shack. 

Of course, our five members, including myself, still choose to hang out in our clubroom every 
day. The student council, after several meetings and different levels of analysis, seems to have 
chosen to ignore us. They didn't approve our club initiation documents, but they didn't say 
anything regarding our forced takeover of the Literature Club either. Maybe it's because the 
club's only member, Nagato Yuki, has no problem with us being here. However, I personally 
believe that the student council simply does not want to get into an argument with Haruhi, so 
they've decided to feign ignorance. 

I don't think anyone in the world would intentionally step on something that says "Warning: 
explodes when stepped on" in red neon lights. Even I don't have the courage to do that. If I had 



only known, I would not have talked to that stubborn girl who put up that unfriendly expression 
every day. 

A normal high schooler who accidentally pressed a button that activated a time bomb, and is now 
being forced to carry that bomb around like a moron - that's me. And this time bomb labeled 
"Suzumiya Haruhi" doesn't even have a counter on it. I have no idea when it's going to explode, 
how much damage it will cause, or what else is inside. Even more importantly, I don't even know 
if this bomb is real. Maybe it's just a toy used to fool little kids. 

I can't seem to find the trash bin labeled "Hazardous Materials Only" no matter how hard I try. 
Which means, this dangerous entity that I've activated is essentially covered with superglue, 
stuck to my hand harder than anything else could be. 

Sigh... Where am I gonna find a place to dump it? 


Chapter 1 

Chapter 1 


High schools organize certain activities from time to time, and the high school that I attend held 
a sports day last month. When Haruhi suggested that the SOS Brigade participate in the inter- 
club relay race, one of the many competitive events held that day, I felt quite dubious. To make 
things worse, we ended up actually beating the Athletics club and the Rugby club in the relay 
race in which Haruhi overwhelmed the second place runner by a whole thirteen horses' lengths! 

So as a result, our club went from being an unspoken taboo, only discussed in the shadows 
(except by me), towards being the current fad at school, reminiscent of a troublemaker who pulls 
fire alarms. I was already at a total loss on how to deal with this but there was more. Of course 
Haruhi was the main instigator in all this, but Nagato, who had run the second leg of the race, 
was just as guilty. I could never forget her speed, which could only be described as instantaneous 
movement. Nagato, you should at least warn me before you do that! 

When I asked Nagato what sort of magic she used this time, the stoic, alien-created living 
humanoid interface replied with explanatory terms such as "energy positioning", "molecular 
dispersion" and other jargon. Of course, such explanations meant nothing to me since I had 
already decided to embrace the artistic subjects and abandon the scientific ones, to which I gave 
absolutely no effort in comprehension or trying to comprehend. 


After that tumultuous sports day ended, a month passed by and the school festival came up. So at 
this moment, this insignificant prefectural high school is busily preparing for this festival... 
though the only people who are really doing anything are the teachers and members from the 
organizing committee and the art-related clubs, since it is their only chance to flex their muscles. 

Now when it came to club-related contributions to the festival, the as-yet unrecognized SOS 
Brigade was not required to provide any creative attractions. Actually, if it were allowed as our 
club contribution, I wouldn't mind locking up a stray cat in a cage, adding a sign indicating 
"Extraterrestrial Alien" and displaying it as a sideshow attraction to make money just like in a 
circus. Though I think that would be unwise because people without a sense of humour would be 
terribly offended while others with a sense of humour would only laugh despicably. 

This sort of attraction wouldn't require any serious consideration for values and success— it didn't 
even require any real effort. The same could be said for the rest of the attractions. High school 
festivals in real life can be that gritty. If you think I'm joking, visit any school holding festivities. 
When you do, you will realize by then that such attractions are pretty much considered a regular 
expectation of school festivals. 

On the other hand, what did class 1-5, the class Haruhi and I belong to, intend to do that day? It 
turns out that we will be preparing some sort of lame questionnaire. I can see it only as a cover 
so as to appear to be organizing something for the festival. Ever since Asakura Ryouko 
disappeared this spring, our class had been devoid of a student with leadership qualities. So due 
to the lack of student participation, this uncreative idea was painstakingly brainstormed by 
Okabe-sensei during the long and boring homeroom session. Without anyone consenting or 
objecting, the motion passed and the long homeroom session was over. But what kind of 
questionnaire? Who would actually be interested in doing this? 

Probably no one, I suppose. But since it's been decided, keep up the great work guys! 

And so, suffering from apathy syndrome, I walked wearily towards the club room. 

Why did I go, you ask? 

Naturally, this is because of a domineering girl coming towards me and rambling endlessly, 
"What questionnaire? This is so retarded!" 

She said this with an outraged expression on her face, "I mean where's the fun in that? I totally 
don't get it!" 

Then why didn't you suggest something better? Weren't you there as well, looking at Okabe- 
sensei standing there like a lonely ghost, not knowing what to do? 


"Forget it, I never intended to join any of the class's activities anyway. There's no fun in 
organizing an activity with these guys." 



But didn't you contribute to the class by winning all of the inter-class races on sports day? I 
thought it was you who won as the last baton in the short, medium, and long distance relays. Or 
has my memory served me wrong? 

"That was different." 

What was different? 

"A school festival is a school festival, or in other words, a campus festival. Though public 
schools are seldom called campuses, but that doesn't matter. After all, isn't the school festival the 
most important activity of the whole school year?" 

Is that so? 

"Absolutely!" She nodded vigorously, then faced me and announced the following, "The SOS 
Brigade will do something very interesting!" 

The face of Suzumiya Haruhi now shone with the same determined look as Hannibal, who had 
decided to cross the Alps during the Second Punic War. 


Shining she may be, but 

For the past six months, whatever Haruhi thought was "interesting" was anything but interesting 
to me, and her interests have all resulted in me being exhausted. At least that's so for me and 
Asahina, but this is because we're normal human beings after all. From what I see, it is common 
knowledge that Haruhi isn't a normal person, while Koizumi possesses a state of mind not 
present in ordinary humans. As for Nagato, she's not even human to begin with. 

Hanging out with this bunch, how am I supposed to live peacefully through this extraordinary 
high school life of mine? I really don't want to get involved in silly stuff anymore. Just thinking 
about it is enough to give me an urge to aim a gun at my forehead, or extract and burn the brain 
cells containing those memories. Though I don't know what Haruhi would say about that. 

Maybe I was too busy thinking how to erase those memories of the past because I wasn't paying 
attention to what the annoying girl next to me was raving about. 

"Hey, Kyon, are you even listening?" 

"I wasn't, where were you again?" 


The school festival! You ought to be more excited! We only get a school festival once a year! 



That may be true, but you don't have to be so concerned about it. 


"Of course I have to be concerned! It won't be a school festival if it isn't exciting enough. It 
should be like the campus festivals that I know of." 

"Did you do something ridiculous while in junior high?" 

"No, it wasn't fun at all. So it won't be reasonable if the high school festival isn't fun as well." 
"Then what is it that you find interesting?" 

"Like real monsters appearing in a haunted house; the number of steps in a flight of stairs 
suddenly increasing; the number of school mysteries jumping from seven to thirteen; an Afro 
hairstyle three times the size of a normal head appearing on the principal's head; the school 
transforming into a giant robot and doing battle with the monster from under the sea; or even 
autumn being represented by plum blossoms..." 

After listening halfway, I stopped paying attention to Haruhi, so I forgot what was said after she 
mentioned how many number of steps there are in a flight of stairs. If anyone was paying 
attention, please do let me know. 

" Sigh, forget it. I'll tell you more when we get to the club room." 

Haruhi strode in large footsteps towards the club room in a bad mood, and in a moment's time, 
we arrived at the door. The sign above the door read, "Literature Club," and cellotaped under that 
sign was a piece of paper with scribbling that read "with the SOS Brigade." 

"Since we've stayed here for half a year already, I don't suppose anyone would mind if we 
claimed this room for ourselves." Haruhi unilaterally declared her sovereignty over the use of the 
room and had wanted to remove the original sign, but I stopped her. After all, it's important for 
humans to maintain a certain amount of caution in their actions. 

Haruhi opened the door without knocking, and standing inside was a fairy girl. When her eyes 
met with mine, she smiled like a lily blossoming. 

"Oh... hello." 

Wearing a maid costume and sweeping the room with a broomstick is the best tea girl ever, the 
pride of the SOS Brigade - Asahina Mikuru-san. As usual, she carried a sweet smile befitting of 
a fairy residing in the club room and welcomed my arrival. Maybe she is a fairy in disguise. She 
feels more like a fairy than a time traveler from the future. 

Asahina was forcefully dragged over by Haruhi at the founding of the brigade, as Haruhi 
explained, "we needed a mascot." Then under Haruhi's demands, she was forced to put on a maid 
costume and has since become the SOS Brigade's official maid. Every day after school she 



would transform into the perfect maid. This is not because of any loose screws in her brain, but 
more like she was so honest and so sincere that I could almost cry. 

Asahina has dressed as a bunny girl, a nurse and all other sorts of costumes for the SOS Brigade. 
Yet I felt the maid costume suited her best. To put it simply, it's because this costume has no 
hidden meaning or innuendo, which was why I hoped she would go on like that. Maybe I should 
emphasize something: Haruhi's actions rarely have any meaning to them. 

Yet her actions often become the trigger for something else, and have put us into a lot of trouble. 
So I actually felt it would be better for her actions to be truly meaningless. 

The often eccentric Haruhi has very rarely done anything correctly, or I should say she's only 
ever done one correct thing, and that is in picking Asahina's maid costume. Since it suited her too 
well, it's enough to make people dizzy. It is only for this alone that I give credit to Haruhi's 
eccentric behavior. I don't know where she bought it or how much she paid, but Haruhi does 
have some taste when it comes to elegant costumes. Though I believe Asahina would look great 
in anything she wears, just like a professional model. And my favorite costume of them all is the 
maid costume. There must be some meaning with this costume, for it was always able to satiate 
my visual senses. 

"I'll go brew some tea." 

Asahina said with her soft, adorable voice. She placed the broomstick into the cleaning cabinet 
and scurried over towards the kitchen cupboard, taking out everyone's cups. 

My abdomen suddenly suffered an intense pain, and when I came to my senses, I realized Haruhi 
had jabbed her elbow into me. 

"Your eyes have squinted as thin as a line now." 

Maybe I was too moved by Asahina's cute movements, so naturally I squinted my eyes leaving 
only a narrow gap. I believe everyone would have the same reaction after seeing the adorably 
elegant and shy Asahina. 

Haruhi walked towards the desk with a black triangular spike that read "Commander," and took 
out an armband that also read "Commander" from the drawer and put it on. She then kicked the 
steel chair out from the desk and sat on it, overlooking the club room. 

Sitting by the corner of a table reading a thick book was another member of the brigade. 


Sitting there fully concentrated on reading her book is none other than Nagato Yuki, the first 
year Literature Club student, who to Haruhi would be like "a bonus gift that comes along with 
occupying the Literature Club room." 



Her existence is as subtle as nitrogen in the atmosphere, yet of all the first years in the brigade 
she is the most extraordinary. Her extraordinariness far exceeds that of Haruhi. I know absolutely 
nothing about Haruhi, yet while I do know something about Nagato, this only makes me even 
more confused about her. If what Nagato said was correct, then this silent short-haired little 
schoolgirl lacking of expression, emotion, and empathy is not a human but a living humanoid 
interface created by aliens to interact with humans. It still sounds very absurd. But since she 
herself has said so, I do not want to question any further since it does sound real. Of course, 
Haruhi doesn't know about this; Haruhi still treats her as "quite a weird bookworm." 

Though objectively speaking, "quite" is an understatement. 

"Where's Koizumi-kun?" 

Haruhi glared at Asahina with her sharp glare. Asahina shuddered for a moment, then said, 

"Eh... h... he's not here yet, he's quite late today " 

Asahina carefully brought out the tea leaves from the tin and placed them in the little teapot. I 
casually looked at the hanging rack by the corner of the club room. All sorts of costumes hung 
on top of it, like a theatre resting room. From the left hung a nurse costume, a bunny girl 
costume, a summer maid costume, a yukata, a white blouse, a leopard skin costume, a woolen 
frog puppet costume, and all other sorts of unidentifiable costumes. 

For the past six months these costumes have all graced the warm skin of Asahina. Fet me explain 
further, there is absolutely no reason for Asahina to wear these costumes, apart from satisfying 
Haruhi's own ego. Maybe she suffered some sort of trauma in the past? Fike not getting the 
dress-up doll she wanted when she was young, so now she sees Asahina as a large doll to play 
around with. Thanks to this, Asahina's emotional scars have increased as the days go by, while 
my visual senses get stimulated as a result, creating a sense of happiness for me. Sigh. Overall, I 
don't think a lot of people have benefitted from this, so I'd best not say anything about it. 

"Mikuru-chan, tea!" 

"Ah. ..yes! Right away!" 

Asahina hurriedly poured the green tea into the cup that had been marked "Haruhi" with a felt-tip 
pen, and carried it over on a tray. 

Haruhi received the teacup and blew the steam off and took a sip. She then spoke like a flower 
arrangement master berating her disciple for not being diligent enough, "Mikuru-chan, I 
remember telling you before. Have you forgotten?" 

"Huh?" Asahina grabbed the tray with trepidation. "W...what is it?" 


She tilted her head like a Java Sparrow reminiscing over the taste of the seeds it ate the day 
before. 



Haruhi placed her cup on the table. 

"When carrying tea over, you need to accidentally trip the tea cup over once every three times! You 
don't look like a clumsy maid at all!" 



£3 

Haruhi: "When carrying tea over, you need to accidentally trip the tea cup over once every three times! 
You don't look like a clumsy maid at all!" 

"Ah, erm s... sorry." 

Asahina shrugged her small shoulders. This is the first time I heard of such a rule; does this girl 
really believe that maids are supposed to be clumsy? 

"You've got a chance now. Mikuru-chan, go use Kyon as practice. When carrying the tea over, 
make sure you spill the tea over his head." 

"Huh?" 

Asahina said then looked at me. I would really like to drill a hole in Haruhi's head and replace 
the contents within. Sadly, I would find nothing inside and can only sigh. 

"Asahina, only someone with a damaged brain could think of something like what Haruhi just 
said." 

So keep up the good work! I had wanted to add that, but decided not to in the end. 

Haruhi heard and rolled her eyes. 

"That idiot over there, I'm not joking! I'm always serious." 



Then that's even more problematic; you probably need a CT scan. Besides, I wonder if getting 
mad at you for calling me an idiot means I lack a sense of humour? 

"Forget it, allow me to demonstrate. Then you follow what I do, Mikuru-chan." 

Haruhi leaped off the steel chair and swiped the tray from the stuttering Asahina. She then lifted 
the teapot and began to pour tea into the cup with my name written on it. 

As I watched this scene unfold with stunned silence, Haruhi roughly placed the cup on the tray, 
splashing the tea all over, then stared at where I was sitting and nodded to signal she was about 
to come over. I promptly picked up the teacup. 

"Hey! Don't get in the way!" 

What do you mean don't get in the way? The only people who would gladly sit there and wait for 
someone to pour hot tea over their heads are either being too nice or are trying to con the 
insurance company. 

And so I stood and drank the green tea Haruhi brewed for me and thought to myself: why is it 
that even though they brewed with the same tea leaves, Asahina's tea tasted so much different 
from Haruhi's? The answer was obvious even without thinking. The difference between them 
was a flavouring called "love." If Asahina was a white rose blooming in the wild, then Haruhi 
would be a special breed of rose that doesn't even blossom and is full of thorns; it probably 
doesn't even have seeds. 

Haruhi looked at me with admonishment as I drank my tea. 

"Hmph." 

She flicked her hair heavily and returned to her seat. The look on her face was as though she had 
just swallowed some bitter herbal medicine. 

Asahina gave a sigh of relief and went back to her usual serving mode, pouring tea into Nagato's 
cup and placing it in front of the reading girl. 

Nagato didn't move, keeping her head transfixed on the hardcover book. You should try and 
express some sort of gratitude! If it were Taniguchi, he'd probably want to wait three days before 
drinking Asahina's tea. 


Nagato flicked the pages without lifting her head. As she's usually like that, Asahina didn't really 
mind and went to prepare her own cup. 


At this moment, the fifth member arrived, though no one would really mind if he hadn't come. 



Sorry, I was delayed, since our class meeting was longer than expected. 


Revealing his charmingly harmless smile and standing by the door is Koizumi Itsuki, Haruhi's 
mysterious transfer student. His handsome face, which I wouldn't introduce my girlfriend to if I 
had one, was carrying a smile as usual. 

"Looks like I'm the last to arrive. If the meeting's delayed because of me, then I sincerely 
apologize. Maybe it would be better if we grab a bite first?" 

Meeting? What meeting? I never knew of any meeting. 

"I'd really have forgotten about it if you didn't mention it." 

Looking down the table, Haruhi said to me, "I told everyone else about it during lunch break 
already. I thought I could tell you any time anyway." 

You had the time to go to other classrooms, yet you never bothered to tell me, who happened to 
sit right in front of you in the same classroom? 

"Does it really matter? It's the same anyway. The issue is not when you get the message, but 
what we're doing now." 

That's her way of putting things around. No matter what Haruhi says, I'd never feel any better. 
This is now common knowledge. 

"What's more important, we need to discuss what we need to be doing soon!" 

Please! Distinguish your present and future tenses! You don't even specify who you are referring 
to. 

"All of us of course! Since this is an SOS Brigade activity." 

What activity? 

"Didn't I just say it? When else can we hold an activity besides during the school festival?" 

Then it's not a brigade activity, but a school activity. If you really want to make the school 
festival more lively, then you ought to apply to join the festival executive committee. Then you'll 
have plenty of menial tasks to take care of. 

"That won't be meaningful at all. What we need is an SOS Brigade-styled activity! It took us a 
lot of work to develop the brigade to its present state! There's no one in this school that doesn't 
know who we are! Don't you understand?" 

What on earth is an SOS Brigade-styled activity? Thinking back on the activities that the SOS 
Brigade has held for the past six months, I suddenly felt melancholic. 



You are only saying whatever pops into your mind, that's easy for you, but do you know how 
much Asahina and I had to suffer these past six months? All Koizumi can do is smile like an 
idiot, while Nagato couldn't provide much help, you should be more considerate at people like 
me, who are by your side all the time. Oh, and Asahina's probably not normal as well, but since 
she's so cute, that's fine with me. Because all she needs to do is just stand there and let my eyes 
savour the scenery and caress the barren field in my heart. 

"We need to do something that suits everyone's expectations," 

Haruhi mumbled, looking unhappy. Speaking of which, just who would expect anything from the 
SOS Brigade? Now that's something worthy for a questionnaire! The SOS Brigade has not even 
grown, the number of members has still remained the same, let alone being promoted into an 
Association. So it's best to maintain the status quo, but sooner or later, the Haruhi Express is 
going to derail someday. There 're only five passengers on this train, at least find a replacement 
for me. Or perhaps just give me an hourly salary, even 100 yen would do. 

Haruhi spent thirty seconds finishing her cup of tea, then asked Asahina for a second cup. 

"What about you Mikuru-chan? Do you have any plans?" 

"Umm You mean our class We're planning on selling noodles and tea " 

"Mikuru-chan is probably a waitress, right?" 

Asahina widened her eyes. 

"How did you know? I had wanted to do the cooking, but everyone else wanted me to " 

Haruhi's eyes now looked intrigued, the sort of cunning eyes that are up to no good. Her eyes 
drifted towards the hanging rack, making it obvious she's thinking she hasn't had Asahina 
dressed as a waitress yet. 

Haruhi's expression was now full of thought. 

"What about Koizumi-kun's class?" 

Koizumi lifted his eyebrow. 

"We've decided to stage a play, but opinions in the class were split. Some wanted an original 
script, while others wanted a classic play. The school festival's coming up but we're still debating 
intensely about it. It's going to be some time before things can be decided." 

Ah, a lively class sure is so much better, though it can be troublesome. 


Hmm. 



Haruhi's eyes now moved towards the remaining unspoken member. 


"What about Yuki?" 

The alien who loved reading now lifted her head like a badger sensing the rain. 

"Divinations." 

She replied without any emotion as usual. 

"Divinations?" 

I now cut in and asked. 

"Yes." 

Nagato, whose face doesn't even look like it's breathing, nodded her head. 

"You're in charge of divinations?" 

"Yes." 

Nagato doing divinations? Is she going to make prophecies? I can imagine Nagato in a black 
pointed cap, wearing a black cape and carrying a crystal ball; then I imagine a scene where she 
tells a couple, "You two will break up in fifty-eight days three hours and five minutes." 

Couldn't you come up with a better lie? Whether Nagato can predict the future is another 
mystery I can never know. 

Asahina's class is opening a stall, Koizumi's staging a play, while Nagato's class is doing 
divinations? Why do other classes activities sound so much more interesting than our dull 
questionnaire activity? Oh yeah, what do you think? Why don't we combine all of the above and 
have a staged divination tea party play? 

"Enough with the idiotic talk, the meeting starts now." 

My previous opinion was kicked off cruelly by Haruhi, who walked towards the white board. 
She pulled the conductor staff until it became as long as a radio antenna and whipped it on the 
white board. 

There's nothing written on it, what do you want me to look at? 

"There'll be something written in a while. Mikuru-chan, you're in charge of the records. 
Carefully write down everything I say." 



When did Asahina become the record keeper? I'm afraid no one knows, since Haruhi has just 
decided that a moment ago. 

Asahina, teagirl and record keeper, picked up a felt-tip pen and sat by the board, looking up at 
Haruhi 's face. 

Haruhi said in an excited tone, "The SOS Brigade is going to make a movie!" 


I really don't understand how Haruhi's brain works. It doesn't really matter, since she's always 
like that. But then this won't be a meeting, but rather an opportunity for her to showcase her 
personal ideas. 

"Hasn't it always been that way?" Koizumi said softly to me, carrying a smile so dashing one has 
an urge to go draw it. Koizumi elegantly opened his mouth, "Suzumiya-san probably knew what 
she wanted to do since the beginning, so I don't think there's much to discuss. Did you tell her 
something you're not supposed to?" 

I don't remember telling her anything about movies today. Maybe she saw a terrible C-movie last 
night and found it too boring and now she's looking for a way to vent her frustration? 

Yet Haruhi was convinced her speech has moved the entire audience and looked very excited. "I 
bet you all have questions right now?" 

I only have questions about how your brain works. 

"When a TV series ends, they usually end with the main character dying, but wouldn't that be too 
unnatural? Why would he die right at the end? It doesn't make any sense, so I hate stories where 
someone dies at the end. I'd never make movies like that!" 

Are we talking about movies or TV series? 

"Didn't I just say we're making a movie? Even the ears of the haniwa figures are larger than 
yours. Go and memorize every single word of what I just said." 

I'd rather memorize all the station names of the nearby railway than memorize your crap rhetoric. 

Asahina, who doesn't look like she's actually from the Calligraphy Club, elegantly wrote the 
words "Movie Release" on the board, Haruhi nodded her head in satisfaction. 


That's about it, you understand now? 



Haruhi talked like a weather forecaster cheerfully predicting that the monsoon rain would be 
over soon. 

"What about it?" 

I asked, which was natural of course. I only understood "Movie Release". Where does she intend 
to find a movie studio to endorse her movie? Could she have found a studio already? 

Yet Haruhi's dark pupils glittered as she smiled brightly, 

"Kyon, has your intelligence deteriorated? Of course we are going to make the movie. The movie 
is going to be shown in the school festival, with the caption 'SOS Brigade Presents' at the 
beginning." 

"When did we become the Movie Study Group?" 

"What are you rambling about? This will always be the SOS Brigade! I don't remember any 
Movie Study Group around here. " 

Haruhi callously said something which would probably piss the Movie Study Group if they heard 
about it. 

"This has been decided long ago! There will be no retrial! Further appeals will be rejected!" 

Since the leader of the SOS Brigade jury says so, I don't suppose it can be overturned? Just who 
on earth shoved Haruhi to the SOS Brigade commander throne? No, wait a minute, come to think 
of it, it was she who claimed the throne for herself. No matter what world you're in, it's always 
the loud and pretentious people that have ever inflating egos. Thanks to this, people like me and 
Asahina, who tend to follow the flow, will always feel confused. This is the conflict of this cold 
and cruel reality; it is also the truth. 

As my mind delved into the philosophical question of what counts as an ideal society 

"So that's how it is." Koizumi said, as though he understood everything. He shared his smile 
equally between me and Haruhi and said, "I understand now." 

Hey, Koizumi, don't just gracefully accept the bomb that Haruhi just dropped! Don't you have 
your own opinions on this? 

Koizumi flicked his parting lightly with his finger, "From what I see, we're making a self-made 
movie to attract visitors to come watch it. Is that right?" 

"Exactly!" 

Haruhi whipped her "antenna" on the board. 



Asahina shuddered, yet she still took the courage and said, "But why decide to make a 

movie?" 


"Last night, I found I couldn't sleep." Haruhi brought the antenna before her eyes and swung it 
like a windscreen wiper. "So I turned on the TV and ended up watching a weird movie. I wasn't 
interested at first, but as I had nothing else to do, I decided to give it a look." 

Just as I thought. 

"That was a really boring movie, so boring I had an urge to make an international prank call to 
the director's house; that's why I came up with this idea." 

The tip of the conductor staff pointed towards Asahina's tiny face. 

"If that kind of movie can exist, then I can definitely make a better one!" Haruhi puffed her chest 
confidently and said, "That's why I want to give it a try, do you have anything to say about that?" 

Asahina shook her head vigorously as if in fear. Even if she did have an opinion, Asahina 
probably wouldn't say anything, while Koizumi is a nodding yes-man, and Nagato never talks 
anyway, so the only one doing the talking would always be me. 

"You seem determined to be a movie director or producer, that's fine with us, it's your choice and 
you can pursue that dream as you desire. That means we can now go ahead and pursue our own 
dreams as well. " 

"I don't get what you mean." 

Haruhi had her lips stuck out like a duck. I patiently explained my detailed analysis to her. 

"You say you want to make a movie, yet we never said anything about it. What if we don't like 
this suggestion? A movie can't be made with just a director alone." 

"Relax, I've come up with a script already." 

"No, that's not what I meant " 

"There's nothing to worry about. You just do what I tell you to, so don't worry." 

I'm very worried. 

"Let me do the planning, I'll take care of everything." 

I'm even more worried now. 

"Man, you sure are annoying! I'm gonna go ahead with what I said I'm gonna do. The aim is to 
get first place in the school festival activities poll! Who knows, those ignorant idiots at the 



Student Council may finally recognize the SOS Brigade as an official club No! I'll make them 

recognize us. To achieve this goal, we must bring public opinion to our side first!" 

Public opinion and exit polls aren't necessarily in direct proportion with each other, you know. 

I tried resisting. 

"What about the production costs?" 

"If you're talking about a budget, we have one." 

Where? I don't believe the Student Council will grant a budget to this underground organization 
that openly conducts its activities. 

"Isn't the Literature Club granted a budget as well?" 

"That's the Literature Club's budget! You can't use that!" 

"But Yuki said it was OK." 

Oh boy. I looked at Nagato's face, while Nagato lifted her head in slow motion to look at me, 
then without saying anything, slowly went back to reading her book. 

Won't there be people that want to join the Literature Club? I didn't intend to ask this question, 
since it's possible that Nagato deliberately arranged for the Literature Club to be on the brink of 
being canceled. She seems to already know what Haruhi is up to; it'll be a pity if someone else 
wants to join the Literature Club now. How I wish someone would reclaim the Literature Club 
from the clutches of Haruhi. 

Haruhi didn't notice what I was thinking, waving her antenna in excitement, "Is everyone clear 
now? Treat this activity as more important than the one at your classes ! If anyone has any 
dissenting opinions, they can tell me after the school festival, OK? The director's orders are 
absolute!" 

Haruhi declared passionately, like a grizzly bear in a zoo holding on to an ice cube during the hot 
summer. The surroundings no longer concern her. 

First she's a brigade commander, now she wants to be a director? What career does she intend to 
be in? And don't tell me you want to be a God. 

"That's it for today! Since I need to think of how to choose the cast and crew and find sponsors. 
There's a lot of stuff involved in making a movie." 

I'm not really sure what making a movie involves, but what on earth is she up to? Sponsors? 


Slam! 



A loud noise echoed across the room. I turned and found Nagato closing her book. That sound 
has now become the unofficial signal for the SOS Brigade to end its business for the day. 

"We'll discuss the details tomorrow!" 

After leaving this sentence, Haruhi fled the room like a cat hearing a can of cat food being 
opened. I don't think there are any details left to explain. 

"But isn't that fine?" 

The only person who would say that is definitely Koizumi. 

"As long as it's not hunting for aliens for a circus freak show, or shooting down a UFO and 
displaying its contents, then I'm relieved." 

Where have I heard this before? 

The smiling esper covered his mouth and laughed. 

"Besides, I'm quite interested in what movie Suzumiya-san is making, I feel I can imagine more 
or less what's on her mind." 

Koizumi glanced towards Asahina, who was cleaning the teacups. 

"This could be an interesting school festival, it'll be fun." 

Influenced by him, my eyes also turned towards Asahina. Just as we were staring at the 
headpiece bouncing with her hair 

"Ah! W...what are you looking at?" 

Noticing two horny guys staring at her, Asahina stopped what she was doing and blushed 
furiously. 

I answered inside my heart. 

Oh no, it's nothing. I was just thinking, what costume would Haruhi be bringing this time? 

Preparing to go home or rather, simply placing the book into her bag, Nagato stood up silently 

and headed towards the door. Could Nagato be reading a book about divinations? Because it's 
written in a foreign language that I couldn't understand. 

"But " I mumbled. 


A movie huh? 



To be honest, I'm a bit interested as well, of course my interest is not as deep as Koizumi's, 
probably just as deep as those marine plankton living off the continental shelf. 

Perhaps I should look forward to it? 

Since no one else is expecting anything from it. 


I take back everything I just said, I don't look forward to anything. 
Because after school the next day, I was already suffering. 


- Presented by: The SOS Brigade 

- Executive Producer / Director / Screenwriter: Suzumiya Haruhi 

- Female Lead: Asahina Mikuru 

- Male Lead: Koizumi Itsuki 

- Supporting Character: Nagato Yuki 

- Assistant Director / Cinematography / Editing / Equipment / Information 
Gathering / 

Other Menial Tasks: Kyon 


When I saw what was written in the notebook, I only thought of one thing, 

"So what is it exactly that I'm doing?" 

"What was written on it, of course." 

Like an orchestra conductor, Haruhi waved her conductor staff. 

"You're the backstage staff, just as the cast and crew allocation has described. We've got a 
formidable cast, right?" 

"A... am I the lead?" 

Asahina asked in a soft voice. Today she wore her usual school uniform instead of her maid 
costume, since Haruhi said she didn't need to change today. Looks like Haruhi's going to bring 
Asahina to someplace today. 

"If possible, can I just have a minor role " 


Asahina pleaded with Haruhi with a sad look. 



"No," Haruhi replied. "I'm going to make Mikuru-chan famous, after all, you're like the 
registered trademark of our brigade. All you need to do is practice signing autographs. Since 
when the movie premieres, the fans will be queuing up for your signature." 

Movie premiere? Where does she intend to hold such an event? 

Asahina doesn't seem too comfortable with this. 

" But I can't act." 

"Don't worry, I'll guide you well." 

Asahina lifted her head in trepidation and looked at me, and sadly lowered her eyebrows. 

There were only three of us here right now, Because Nagato and Koizumi had meetings for their 
classes' festival activities, they were going to be late today. I never thought there would be 
people who would stay behind after school to prepare these things; I mean, all they needed to do 
was just sit there and get it over with. I was amazed there were quite a number of people who 
were serious about it. 

"On the other hand, Yuki and Koizumi-kun aren't serious about this," Haruhi said in annoyance. 
Not knowing how to vent her anger, she pointed her finger at me, "I clearly said this activity 
takes priority over the rest. Yet they chose to be late so they can attend their classes' activities. I 
really need to give them a warning." 

Maybe Nagato and Koizumi-kun had a better sense of belonging with their classes than Haruhi 
and I. From a certain perspective, it's actually more strange for the three of us to be here at this 
time. 

I suddenly thought of something. 

"Asahina-san, don't you need to attend your class's meeting?" 

"Um, I'm only on the staff responsible for serving the customers, so all that's left is to design the 
costumes. I still don't know what costume I'm going to wear, but I'm looking forward to it." 

Asahina blushed and smiled. She already seems used to cosplaying now. Instead of sticking 
around with the SOS Brigade and being forced to wear all sorts of meaningless costumes without 
any reasons at all, wouldn't it be better for her to wear something appropriate for the right 
occasion? It's perfectly normal for waitresses to appear in a noodle stall, more so than a maid in 
the Literature Club room. 

I never knew how Haruhi managed to include that in the discussion topic. 

"So, Mikuru-chan, you wanted to dress up as a waitress? Why didn't you say so? That'll make 
things easy, I'll find a costume for you." 



I don't really mind you making these sort of witty remarks, but don't you think that it's 
inappropriate for people in the Literature Club room to wear all sorts of costumes besides their 
uniform? Even the nurse costume before was questionable, if she has to wear a costume, I still 
find the maid costume the best Is this a personal fetish of mine? 

"Oh, all right." 

Haruhi turned towards me, 

"Kyon, do you know what's the most important thing when making a movie?" 

Hmm Well, I tried to recall every movie scene that has moved me which is worthy for 

reference. When I finished thinking, I confidently answered, 

"Innovation and passion?" 

"It's nothing that abstract!" 

Haruhi rejected my thinking. 

"It's a camera, of course! How are we going to shoot a movie without one?" 

You may be right, but I wasn't talking about something so pragmatic Forget it, it's not like I 

have a lot of innovative ideas or passion for movie making and movie theories, so I wasn't going 
to argue. 

"It's decided." 

Haruhi retracted her conductor staff and threw it on the commander's desk. 

"We will now go obtain a camera." 

Thud! The sound of a chair backtracking can be heard. I turned and saw that Asahina's face had 
gone pale. Can't really blame her; after all, Haruhi had savagely looted the computer in this room 
from the Computer Study Group, using poor Asahina as a sacrifice. 

Asahina's brown hair shivered, she slowly opened her cherry blossom lips and said, 

"U...umm S...Suzumiya-san, I just remembered something, I need to go back to the 

classroom." 

"Be quiet." 

Haruhi wore a horrible expression. Asahina shuddered and instantly sat back on her chair 
wearily. Haruhi then smiled gently. 



"Don't worry." 

Just because you said "don't worry" doesn't guarantee something worth worrying about won't 
happen. 

"This time I won't be using Mikuru-chan's body as an offering, I only need your help this time." 

Asahina looked at me with eyes as sad as a calf being sent on a truck to the slaughterhouse. 
Without shouting loudly, I said to Haruhi, 

"At least tell us what you want us to help on! Or both Asahina-san and I won't leave this place." 
Haruhi's expression read, "What's with these two?" 

She said, "I'm going to find a sponsor, it's easier to make an impression if I bring the female lead 
along, right? You come too! Since you have to carry the equipment." 

(Chapter 1 end) 


Chapter 2 

Chapter 2 


It's already autumn, yet for some reason, the weather's hardly cool. It's as if the planet has its 
seasons all wrong and had forgotten to bring autumn over to Japan. The summer heat has now 
been indefinitely extended, and unless someone comes and hits a home run, it's unlikely this will 
end soon. Even if it does, one gets the feeling that autumn would still be shoved aside by winter 
anyway when it comes. 

"We might be late already." Haruhi said, so we packed our bags and left the school. Haruhi 
hurriedly ran along the long winding slope. Just where is she headed? I would understand if we 
were headed for the Computer Study Group since, after all, we're a mysterious club that has 
existed for six months without anyone even knowing what the founding principle is. Being 
driven out would be a logical end for us. 

We descended from the hill and rode on the local suburban railway. Three stops later, we've 
arrived at the area with the cherry blossom path that Asahina and I had walked along together at 
one time. This place contains a supermarket complex and a shopping street, and because of such, 
is quite a busy and crowded spot. 


Right here. 


Haruhi finally stopped and pointed to an electronics store. 

"I see," I replied. 

She's probably going to blackmail the store for their movie equipment. 

I wonder how she's going to do it? 

"You two wait here, while I go in and negotiate." 

Haruhi shoved her bag at me and walked into the glass-covered store without any hesitation. 

Asahina hid behind me, constantly peeking at the store, which was illuminated by all the lighting 
equipment. She was like a shy elementary school kid visiting her friend's place for the first time. 
As I look at the back of Haruhi, waving her arms and talking to what seemed to be the store 
manager, my desire to protect Asahina became strong. If Haruhi tries anything funny, I'm going 
to carry Asahina under my arms and run off at once. 

Through the glass, Haruhi talked and pointed her finger first at the equipment, then at herself, 
and then at the manager. Meanwhile the manager nodded nonstop. I wonder whether I should 
warn him to not believe what she says so easily? 

After a while, Haruhi turned around and pointed her finger towards us, who were already 
prepared to escape if anything went wrong. She then gave a warm smile, waved her arms, and 
continued her presentation. 

"What is she doing...?" Asahina asked, as she stood behind me, sticking her head out and 
retracting it again. If even Asahina, a time traveler from the future, doesn't know the answer, then 
there's no chance that I would know. 

"Who knows? Probably demanding for them to hand her their best digital camera for free." 

She's the sort of person who can do such a thing without even flinching. Since she truly believes 
herself to be the center of the universe with everything else revolving around her. 

"What a bother." 

I remember discussing something similar with Nagato before. 

Haruhi believes her values and judgment to be absolute. She does not understand what others 
think, or realize that they may think differently, or rather, it has never occurred to her that her 
way of thinking may be completely different from others’ since the beginning. 



If people want to achieve time travel, just put Haruhi on a spaceship. Since she probably 
wouldn't give a damn about the Theory of Relativity anyway. 

As I mentioned this to Nagato, all that the silent alien said was, "Your opinion may be correct." 
For Nagato, this is very meaningful. For others, Suzumiya Haruhi is a joke. 

"Oh, it seems like they're done." 

Asahina's whisper brought me back to reality from my daydreams. 

Haruhi emerged from the electronics store with a satisfied look, carrying a small box in her arms. 
There was a picture of the product by the side of the box with a brand name. If I'm not mistaken, 
that was a camera all right. 


Just what threats did she use to intimidate the opposition? 

Did she threaten to burn the store down? Or maybe start a boycott campaign? Or perhaps to send 
them prank faxes all night? Or to start a tantrum right there? Could she even have threatened to 
blow herself up along with the store? 

"Don't be ridiculous! I'm not the sort to resort to blackmail!" 

Haruhi walked along happily, under the glass roof of the shopping street. 

"We've now completed the first step! This is too easy!" 

I was forced to carry the box containing the camera while I followed Haruhi. I looked at Haruhi's 
hair flowing behind her back and asked, "How did you manage to obtain such an expensive 
item? Is it because you discovered the manager's dirty secrets?" 

Indeed, the first words Haruhi said when she emerged from the store were, "We got it!" If the 
manager was so willing to give things away, I'm willing to queue up as well. So please, tell me 
the magic words you used! 

Haruhi turned and smiled, "It was nothing really! I said I wanted to make a movie and needed a 
camera, and he said ‘Okay.’ There was no problem at all." 

I felt that even though things were going smoothly now, it wouldn't end so easily. Could I be 
worrying too much? 


Don't sweat the small stuff, just happily be my servant and things will be fine! 



Unfortunately, up until now, I still held the uneasy feeling from this spring, of boarding a cruise 
ship called the Titanic. I wanted to send out an SOS signal, but sadly, I don't know Morse code, 
and I'm not the sort of person who can be glad at being called a servant. 



£3 

I was forced to carry the box containing the camera white I followed Haruhi. 

"All right! Now for the next store!" 

In the bustling crowd, Haruhi waved her arms and strode forward. I exchanged glances with 
Asahina, and then hurriedly followed along behind Haruhi. 


Haruhi next visited a toy and model store. 

As before, Asahina and I were left outside while she went in to negotiate. I was beginning to 
have an idea of what she was up to, since every time she pointed out towards us, her finger was 
always directed towards Asahina. If I’m guessing correctly, she must be using Asahina as some 
sort of bargaining chip. Asahina has yet to realize this, as she was curiously studying a globe on 
display in the window. 

A few minutes later, Haruhi came out carrying a huge box with her. What is it this time? 


"A weapon," Haruhi replied, and shoved the box to me. I looked carefully and saw it was a 
plastic model; it looks like a gun-shaped weapon. What does she want with this stuff? 



"We'll need this for the action scenes, the gun fights that is! An intense battle is the basic 
ingredient for any entertaining movie. If it's possible, I want to blow up an entire building as 
well. Do you know where they sell explosives? I wonder if the hardware store has them." 

How the hell should I know? At least I know you won't find them in the convenience stores or on 
the internet. Maybe they have some in the stone quarry... I had wanted to remind Haruhi of this, 
but quickly dispelled the thought, mainly because she would probably go there in the middle of 
the night and steal some dynamite and wires for herself. 

I lowered the camera and plastic model boxes and shook my head. 

"What should we do with these boxes?" 

"You take them home first, and then bring them to the club room tomorrow. It's too troublesome 
taking it back to school now." 

"Me?" 

"Yes, you." 

Haruhi crossed her arms and gave a benevolent expression. That was a smile rarely seen in the 
classroom, and reserved only for the SOS Brigade, and every time Haruhi makes such a smile, I 
always had to take care of the rest. Just what was I to her? 

"Excuse me..." 

Asahina politely raised her arm, 

"What should I be doing...?" 

"You can go home now, Mikuru-chan. Your work is done for today." 

Asahina blinked her eyes and had the look some one that had just been possessed by a fox. Since 
all Asahina ever did today was blindly follow Haruhi and me, she probably doesn't know why 
Haruhi had asked her to come along, though I could guess what Haruhi was up to. 

Haruhi walked energetically like a gym instructor and led us to the station. It seems like today's 
Haruhi-ist activity was coming to an end. The loot included a camera and a few toy guns. Rather 
than by skillful negotiation, Haruhi probably obtained these through very unorthodox means. The 
expenses were zero. In other words, we got them for free. 

There used to be a saying, "There's nothing more terrifying than not needing to pay." The thing 
is, Haruhi doesn't seem to care. If someone knows something that would make her terrified, 
please, do let me know. 



The next day, besides my bag, I had to carry some excess baggage up the slope. 


"Hey, Kyon! What are you carrying? Some present for a certain model student?" 

Running towards my side is Taniguchi, a classmate of Haruhi's and mine, a very simple single- 
celled organism, and as normal a high school student as you can find anywhere. Normal is such a 
great description for him. Right now, for me, normalcy is a rare commodity since this word 
represents the magic of the language used in reality. 

I hesitated for a while, and then stuffed the lighter of the two supermarket bags into Taniguchi's 
arms. 

"What the hell's this, a toy gun? I didn't know you had such hobbies." 

"It's not my hobby, it's Haruhi's." 

I then gave Taniguchi a brief explanation, but Taniguchi was quite right in treating this as an odd 
hobby. 

"I find it hard to imagine Suzumiya breaking this up and then reassembling and preserving it." 

I too, found it hard to imagine, so who else besides Haruhi can break up and reassemble these 
things? I might as well tell everyone that when I was young, I attempted to assemble a toy robot, 
but no matter how hard I tried, I just couldn't attach its right shoulder and I threw it away out of 
frustration. 

"You sure have it tough." 

Taniguchi said in a tone that didn't sound sympathetic at all, 

"Up to now, the only person capable of protecting Suzumiya has been you. This I can guarantee, 
so you'd better stick with her." 

What the hell are you talking about? There's no way I would want to stick with Haruhi! The one 
I should be sticking around with is Asahina. I'm sure everyone would feel the same. 

Taniguchi giggled like a gremlin. 

"Ah, that won't do, after all, she's the little angel of North High, the solace for the hearts of all the 
guys. If you don't want to be stuffed in a sack by half of the school, I suggest that you'd better 
watch your step. I don't suppose you'd like for me to stab you in the back with a knife, would 
you?" 

All right, then I'll go with the second best and pick Nagato. 



"That won't do either. She may not look like it, but she has a lot of hidden admirers. How come 
she stopped wearing glasses? Has she switched to contacts?" 

"Hmm. . . why don't you ask her yourself?" 

"Ask? Up to now, no matter how hard I tried, she has ignored everything I've said. Everyone in 
Nagato's class firmly believes that a single word she says is enough to determine the fate of the 
day." 

Stop treating Nagato like a god. What sort of superstition is this? She may not be ordinary, but 
for her standards, she's actually quite normal. Though I don't really know what her standards are. 

"Anyway, you fit well with Suzumiya. Only you can carry out a decent conversation with that 
idiot. So keep a good eye on her and minimize the casualties to as low as possible. Oh yeah, the 
school festival is coming up, what huge event are you guys planning for then?" 

"Don't ask me." 

I'm not the spokesperson for the SOS Brigade, but Taniguchi continued, "Even if I asked 
Suzumiya, she would just answer with something cryptic, and if I don't time my question 
correctly, I might even get attacked by her. As for Nagato Yuki, you won't get anything out of 
her no matter what’s being asked, while Asahina is off limits, as I'll probably be lynched by a 
mob if I tried to talk with her. So in the end, I had to ask you." 

He sure is good at making excuses. According to him, I'm just mister nice guy. 

"Aren't you? You look like the sort of person who would continue walking forward with her, 
even when you know a cliff awaits you ahead." 

As we got near the school entrance, I snatched the bag from Taniguchi's arms while looking 
quite irritated. 

I don't know what lies ahead in the midst of Haruhi's madness, but I don't think it can be 
anything good. Yet, I'm not the only one walking with Haruhi in this perilous journey. There are 
at least three others with me. Two of them can probably take care of themselves, but Asahina 
would be in great danger since she has no idea what to expect. It's as though she isn't from the 
future at all. But that's also where her charm lies. 

"Which is why," I explained to Taniguchi, "Someone needs to protect her." 

Ah, that's more like what a male protagonist should be saying. Though I'm just protecting her 
from Haruhi's sexual harassment. That's all. 

I calmly continued, "Since I was given this chance, I have to protect her. I don't care what the 
rest of the guys in school say, be my guest if you want to form a gentleman's alliance or 
something like that." 



Taniguchi continued to giggle like a gremlin. 

"You'd better tread carefully, since every month is a new month." 

After leaving the sort of blackmail threat a conniving thief would use, Taniguchi walked past the 
school entrance. 


As I carried my baggage and headed towards the corridor outside the classroom, I saw Haruhi 
stuffing her things into her locker. I proceeded to put the camera equipment and model toy guns 
into my stainless steel locker as well. 

"Kyon, we're gonna be busy today." 

Without even saying good morning, Haruhi slammed her locker door and gave me a smile as 
warm as early spring. 

"Mikuru-chan, Yuki, and even Koizumi-kun, I won't allow you guys to have any complaints! 

The movie script in my mind has now neared completion. I can even hear it rumble; now all that 
remains is to just put it on screen." 

"Really?" 

I casually replied, and entered the classroom. My seat is the second from last of the row. Since 
the school term began, we've changed seats many times already, but so far I've never been 
allocated the seat in the back since Haruhi always ends up sitting there behind me. I'm beginning 
to feel that it's too unnatural to be coincidental, yet I still wanted to believe that it was all just a 
coincidence. 

If I don't tell myself that, I would lose faith in the word "coincidence," I sure am kind. I'm sure 
anyone who gets involved with Haruhi would believe the same as I do. I'm like a midfielder in 
charge of intercepting any ball that's not controlled by either side, while Haruhi is a hyper- 
attacking striker standing in an offside position and running towards the goal. She's probably so 
offside that the nearest opponent is miles away, so even if she does get the ball, the linesman 
would have no choice but to raise the offside flag. 

For Haruhi, she'd probably say that's the linesman's mistake. She would say with a straight face 
that something is wrong with the rules and then proceed to pick up the ball, run past the goal 
posts, and declare that she's scored a point. If that's the case, I suggest she stay away from rugby. 

In order to deal with her inconsiderate attitude, the best way is to just pretend nothing ever 
happened and quietly leave the crime scene. Or to just give up on struggling and obey whatever 
she says. 



Besides me, most of the classmates have chosen the former option. 


So after the sixth session, with one more class to go, Okabe-sensei and the other students all had 
nothing to say about the seat behind me being empty. Did they not notice? Or did they choose 
not to notice? Or perhaps they just couldn't be bothered to waste their time worrying about such 
things? At any rate, everyone has agreed that it's best to leave her alone, so it's no longer 
important to know why. 

I walked towards the clubroom with an ominous feeling, carrying the bag containing the boxes, 
and stopping before the Literature Club room. 

I thought I heard something. The "Ahh’s!" are the cute screams of Asahina, while the "Waah’s!" 
are the chilling yells of Haruhi. Here we go again. 

If I opened the door now, I would probably see very pleasant scenery, but as a man with common 
sense, I held back my desires and quietly waited outside. 

After about five minutes, the soft screams of resistance have finally subsided, as it always ends 
with Haruhi putting her arms on her waist and smiling victoriously. Like a rabbit that can never 
defeat a snake, there's no way Asahina can ever defeat Haruhi. 

I knocked on the door. 

"Come in!" 

Haruhi's energetic reply echoed through the door. I tried to guess what was contained within the 
paper bags that she brought this morning, while opening the door, and entering the clubroom. As 
expected, Haruhi's victorious smile greeted me, but I was already tired of that expression. I 
turned my gaze towards the person sitting before Haruhi on a steel chair, and I felt my 
temperature rising instantly. 

A waitress was sitting right there, looking at me with watery eyes. 


Her hair a bit messy, the waitress lowered her head and kept silent like Nagato. Haruhi had the 
waitress's brown hair tied into two ponytails. Amazingly, Nagato was nowhere to be seen. 

"So how is it?" 

Haruhi snorted and asked me. What's with that face telling me it's all thanks to you? Asahina's 
cuteness is a god- given gift, yet... 

I actually think she looks great in this costume. I wonder what Asahina thinks? She wouldn't 
disagree with me having such thoughts, would she? Though, isn't her skirt a bit too short? 



Like 100% pure fruit juice, Asahina the waitress clutched her hands and placed them tightly on 
her fists and sat stiffly. 

This costume looks perfect on you; it's as if it were made especially for you. Thanks to this, I 
silently stared at Asahina for thirty seconds. Suddenly someone patted my shoulders and nearly 
had me jumping in fright. 

"Sorry about yesterday. We still have to revise the script today, but I insisted on leaving early 
since I didn't have the opportunity to prepare with you guys from beginning to end yesterday. " 

Koizumi smiled with his handsome face and then glanced in the clubroom over my shoulder. 

"Hi." 

He smiled cheerfully. 

"This costume..." 

Koizumi walked past me, placed his bag on the table and sat down on one of the steel chairs. 
"Suits you wonderfully." 

He gave his most direct opinion. Well, everyone knows about that. What I don't understand is 
what is a waitress is doing here in a crummy old room instead of in a cafe or restaurant. 

"That's because," Haruhi said, "I wanted Mikuru-chan to wear this costume in the movie." 

What’s wrong with the maid costume? 

"Maids only do certain tasks for the rich in their mansions. Waitresses are different, they appear 
on the street corner, or in some store, and provide all sorts of services to the mass public at an 
hourly rate of 730 Yen." 

I don't know if that hourly rate is considered high or low, but at any rate, I don't think Asahina 
would dress up as a maid just so she can work in some mansion. It's a different story if Haruhi 
actually pays for her services though. 

"Stop picking at the small details! It all has to do with how you feel, and I feel this looks good." 
You may think so, but what about Asahina? 

"Umm... Suzumiya-san... I think this costume is a bit small for me..." 

Asahina's probably worried about her panties showing, since she's tightly pressing the edge of 
her skirt down. But doing this only serves to unsettle me further, and before I knew it, my eyes 
were transfixed upon that spot. 



"I think this suits you just fine." 

It took a lot of effort to move my gaze away and fix it towards Haruhi, who was smiling like a 
beautiful flower blossoming in the middle of a forest. Haruhi aimed her pupils, which can only 
see what's before them, to me. 

"The concept for our movie this time is..." 

She pointed towards Asahina's shivering back. 

"This." 

What do you mean "this”? You want to make a documentary of a girl working part-time in a 
teashop? 

"No! There's not much fun in making a candid camera show of Mikuru-chan's daily life. We've 
got to make a movie about the daily life of an extraordinary person, only then can the movie be 
attractive. Making a documentary about the daily life of an ordinary high school student is just 
satisfying one's ego." 

I don't think that Asahina would be satisfied by making this movie. I believe someone else needs 
to have their ego satisfied, and I believe that Asahina's daily life is already extraordinary enough, 
but I decided to keep quiet. 

"As the director of the SOS Brigade, I will carry out the mission to entertain the masses. Just you 
wait! I will make everyone give me a standing ovation!" 

Looking carefully, I realized Haruhi's "Commander" armband had now been replaced with the 
word "Director." Such a meticulous person. 

An excited female director, a depressed lead actress, and a lead actor smiling enigmatically as 
though he's only a bystander, I really don't know how to describe this scene. At this moment, the 
clubroom door opened. 


I thought it was someone else, and for a moment my mind was filled with terror. I thought my 
short life had finally come to an end, since even Death had come to receive me. I even thought I 
was in the backstage of the movie where Salieri slowly destroyed Mozart as he composed his 
Requiem. 


Nagato's usual pale face silently emerged from the doorway. She only showed her face, while her 
body was shrouded in darkness. 



I wasn't the only one frightened into silence, Haruhi and Asahina weren't any better, even 
Koizumi's usual smile carried a bit of fearfulness in it. Nagato was wearing a strange costume 
that even Asahina would feel startled in. She had covered herself with a black cloak, wearing an 
equally pitch black pointed hat, a recognizable witch outfit. 

Under our petrified gaze, Nagato, who was dressed like Death, silently walked to her reserved 
seat by the corner, took out her bag and hard-back book from under her cloak, and placed it on 
the table. 

Ignoring our stunned glances, she began to read her book. 


Looks like this would be the costume used for divinations for her class during the school festival. 

Being the first to recover from the shock, Haruhi bombarded Nagato with a series of questions. 
From her monosyllabic replies, we came to this conclusion: there must be a talented fashion 
designer in her class to be able to make Nagato enjoy wearing this costume around. 

Nagato entered the room in such a terrifying doll-like costume, has she secretly decided to 
compete with Asahina-san in her own way? Her logic is even harder to understand than Haruhi's! 

Under this silent atmosphere which no dared to speak, only Haruhi exclaimed excitedly, 

"So you've finally got the hang of it, Yuki? This costume is excellent!" 

Nagato slowly moved her eyes towards Haruhi and then returned her gaze to her book. 

"This costume matches exactly with my character concept! Do tell me later who designed this 
costume for you, I'd like to send him a telegraph to thank him for his efforts ! " 

Oh please, sending him a congratulatory telegraph would just make him even more suspicious, 
worrying whether there's some hidden meaning to it. Can't you objectively notice how everyone 
else thinks of you? 

Haruhi was already in seventh heaven. Humming the Turkish Rondo, she opened her bag and 
took out a few pieces of printed paper. She then handed the papers to each of us, while beaming 
like Kintarou who had just beaten the black bear. 

I had no choice but to direct my gaze towards the piece of paper. 

On it was scribbled the following: 

"Battle Waitress - The Adventures of Asahina Mikuru (Working Title) " 

- Cast 



- Asahina Mikuru - the Battle Waitress from the future 

- Koizumi Itsuki - the Esper youth 

- Nagato Yuki - the evil alien 

- Extras - everyone else 


Oh god, what on earth is this? She actually guessed them all correctly. 

I was totally shocked. I did not know whether she had amazing skills of deductions, or she 
simply guessed blindly and got them all correct. I even suspected that she pretended not to know. 
To be able to make such correct judgments out of the blue, just what kind of power was that? 

I was speechless for a moment, and only came to my senses when I heard someone giggling 
besides me. That could only be Koizumi, 

"Oh, I see " 

He seemed rather pleased; I really am envious of him. 

"How should I say this? As expected from Suzumiya-san perhaps? Only Suzumiya-san could 
have come up with such characters, simply amazing." 

Don't smile at me like that, you're making me uncomfortable. 

Asahina-san gripped the stack of A4 paper with her hands, which were trembling as she stared at 
the contents. 

"Ah " 

She exclaimed softly and looked at me, carrying an expression as though asking to be rescued. I 
looked carefully and noticed her eyes carried a sense of extreme sadness with a bit of 

reproachfulness, like a kind big sister berating a young kid for pulling a naughty prank Ah, 

now I remember. After what happened six months ago, I told Haruhi about their true identities. 

Um, oh dear. Was it my fault? 

I frantically looked at Nagato, and saw that the alien-created Living Humanoid Interface, 
wearing her black cloak and pointy hat 


tt 


ft 


Was still silently reading her book. 



"It's not that big of a problem. 


Koizumi said optimistically, I wasn't even in the mood to laugh. 

"I know it's not funny, but it's not all that gloomy." 

"How do you know?" 

"Because this is only a character allocation for the movie. Suzumiya-san doesn't really believe 
that I'm an esper, it's only in the fictional movie world that the character Koizumi Itsuki, played 
by me, happens to be an esper." 

Koizumi sounded like a personal tutor lecturing at a student with a short-term memory. 

"The Koizumi Itsuki in the real world and this 'Koizumi Itsuki' are two different people. I don't 
suppose that you would confuse me with the character I play. Even if someone were to confuse 
between the two, it wouldn't be Suzumiya-san." 

"I just can't relax. No one can guarantee that what you say is correct." 

"If she had confused the real world with a fictional one, this world would have become a science 
fiction realm already. I've said it before, Suzumiya-san may not look like it, but she does think 
logically within the confines of reality." 

Of course I also knew that because Haruhi's way of thinking was always in half-fantasy mode, 
that was why I always got involved in all sorts of peculiar events. To top it all, the perpetrator 
Haruhi was not even aware of it herself. 

"Because we offered no proof." 

Koizumi said calmly, 

"Perhaps one day things will develop to an extent where her awareness will become inevitable, 
but that's not the case now. It's good that the forces Asahina-san and Nagato-san represent think 
the same way as well, so I believe it's fine if we keep it like this forever." 

I thought so too, since I don't want to see the world getting messed up. It would be a pity if the 
world ends before I could even have a chance of beating the video game that comes out next 
week. 

Koizumi continued smiling, 

"Instead of worrying about the world, you should take care of yourself more. It's possible for me 
and Nagato-san to be replaced with someone else easily, but not you." 



In order not to let Koizumi see my now complex thoughts, I pretended to concentrate on loading 
the toy gun. 


Today, Haruhi spent the time having Asahina-san try out the costume, announced the character 
allocation for everyone, and then called it a day. In fact, she had planned to drag Asahina-san, 
dressed in her waitress costume, everywhere around school, and then open a press conference to 
promote her movie. But as Asahina-san was close to tears, I tried everything to make her drop 
that idea. I told her in this high school, there was no News Society, or Journalist Society, and 
definitely no Advertising Society. Haruhi looked at me, her lips sticking out like a bird's beak, 
and looked down and said, 

"Yeah, you're right." 

I never thought she would back off so quickly. 

"It's better to keep things secret until the last moment. Kyon, you're quite smart for your level of 
intelligence. It'll be troublesome if things were to leak out beforehand." 

This isn't some Hollywood or Hong Kong action movie; no one would be interested in stealing 
your weird ideas. 

"Then Kyon, you're responsible for making sure that gun is up and ready by today, because 
shooting starts tomorrow. You need to learn how to use a camera as well. Oh yeah, you need to 
look for software that could upload the video clip onto the computer for digital editing, and " 

And so, Haruhi shoved a whole load of work to me and went home humming the tune of "The 
Great Escape." 

She really knows how to give people a lot of trouble no matter how they are feeling. Seriously! 

So right now, Koizumi and I are busy reading the instruction manual and figuring out how to fire 
the BB bullets from the toy gun. 

After changing, Asahina-san went home with her shoulders drooped low. Nagato also 
disappeared without even taking her bag in that witch costume as though being invited for the 
Sabbath. Looks like Nagato only came to show us her costume. Judging by her style, there may 
be some meaning for her to do that, though it's also possible she only came just to visit. She's 
probably busy doing something in her classroom, like predicting the future with her crystal ball. 



I had a feeling the school was getting livelier day after day. Every day after school, the trumpets 
in the third-rate orchestra stopped going out of tune and began to be in synch; there were also 
people cutting up plywood and balsa in every hidden corner of the school; while the number of 
students dressed up in weird costumes like Nagato's was increasing every day. 

Yet, this was only a school activity held by a simple prefectural high school, it doesn't seem like 
it would be a big thrill. In my opinion, only half the school at most were still trying hard to make 
their school life more enjoyable. Our class, 1-5, on the other hand, had long abandoned trying to 
have fun at the festival. Those students without any club affiliations would probably have plenty 
of time to spare by then, and Taniguchi and Kunikida were perfect representatives of the "Go 
Home After School Club." 

"This school festival," 

Taniguchi began. 

It was during lunch break, I was hanging out with these two insignificant side characters as we 
ate our boxed lunches. 

"What about the school festival?" 

Kunikida asked, Taniguchi revealed a smile that was pathetically hideous compared to Koizumi's 
elegant smile, 

"Sure is a super event." 

Could you please not sound like Haruhi!? The smile from Taniguchi's face faded suddenly, 

"Yet it has nothing to do with me, that sure pisses me off." 

"Why is that?" 

Kunikida asked. 

"I don't think it's fun at all. And those people that look busy sure tick me off, especially those 
where the guys are paired with the girls. Makes me want to kill them!" 

I guess this is what they call a jealous rage? 

"What about our class? Holding a survey? Hmph! That's way too boring! It's just going to be 
stupid questions about what's your favourite colours! What's the point of collecting such 
information anyway?" 


If you're so dissatisfied, why don't you suggest something else then? Maybe then Haruhi 
wouldn't have had the time to go make a movie. 



Taniguchi swallowed a sausage and said, 


"I'm not going to get myself in trouble by making such suggestions. Sigh, I don't mind making 
suggestions, it's just that I would be put in charge of the event if the suggestion is followed." 

Kunikida stopped cutting his rolled cake and said, "You're right." 

"It's only the foolish that would dare come out with any suggestions, or those with a strong sense 
of responsibility, like if Asakura-san were still here." 

He mentioned the name of the student that had moved to Canada. I would still break a cold sweat 
every time I hear that name. Though it was Nagato that made Asakura disappear, I was the cause 
of her departure. I also did nothing to prevent her from disappearing back then, so it's too late to 
regret it now. 

"Man, this is such a pity," Taniguchi said, "Why did that perfect, bright student leave us? She 
was the sole reason I felt grateful for being in this class. Damn, I wonder if it's too late to request 
to move to a different class?" 

"Which class do you have in mind?" Kunikida asked, "Nagato's class? Oh, speaking of which, I 
saw her wandering around dressed like a wizard, just what was that all about?" 

Well, I'm not sure myself. 

"Nagato, huh " 

Taniguchi looked at me, his face suddenly looked as though he had to face a math pop quiz, and 
said as though realizing something, 

"So when did it begin? I saw you embracing her in the classroom back then. That's probably one 
of Suzumiya's scripts. You did that to scare me on purpose, right? You can't fool me." 

It's a good thing Taniguchi misinterpreted the whole thing, the weight on my shoulders was 

instantly lifted at once Wait a minute, didn't you come in the classroom because you forgot 

to bring something? How were we supposed to know you were coming? Of course, I didn't 

tell him about this. Taniguchi is an idiot, and there's really no point in telling an idiot that he's an 
idiot. Sometimes I'm even grateful that the gods have made Taniguchi an idiot at birth. 

"Speaking of which, that sure was nonsense," 

Taniguchi said gratefully, Kunikida was busy eating, while I looked behind me. Haruhi's seat 
was empty, just what was she up to now? 



I was looking around the school for places where I could shoot the movie, 


Haruhi said, 

"But there was no suitable location. There's just no way we could create any atmosphere inside 
the school, let's go outside!" 

She may not like the atmosphere in the school, but she didn't have to go through the trouble of 
finding a lively spot outside just because of that. She seemed determined to make it big. 

"Um D... Do I have to go, too?" 

Asahina-san asked in a terrified tone. 

"Of course. We can't be without our star." 

"I... In this costume?" 

Asahina-san shivered, since like yesterday, today she was again forced to wear that waitress 
costume, which I have no idea how Haruhi obtained it. 


"Well, of course." 

Haruhi nodded as a matter-of-factly, Asahina-san embraced herself and squirmed. 

"Wouldn't it be too bothersome if you have to change all the time? We might not be able to find 
a place to change there anyway. So you might as well wear that all day, right? C'mon! Let's go!" 

"At least let me wear something on top " 

Asahina-san pleaded. 

"No!" 

"But it's too embarrassing." 

"You have to feel embarassed in order to portray that subtle shy feeling! How do you expect to 
win the Golden Globe like that?" 

Wasn't our objective just to win the best event for the school festival? 

Today everyone in the brigade was gathered in the club room. Koizumi came as well, his class' 
theatre script being sorted out already, smiling at the one-sided interaction between Haruhi and 
Asahina-san. Nagato was here as well, though she posed another problem. 



It II 


She was silent as usual, that was nothing, but she looked strange today. For some reason, she was 
again dressed in that wizard outfit that she came to show us yesterday. Actually she could just 
wear that on the day of the school festival, she didn't have to start wearing it now. 

Haruhi looked really fond of Nagato's black cloak and pointed hat. 

"Your role is now the 'Evil Alien Magician!"' 

In no time she had already altered the script. I watched as Haruhi stuffed into Nagato's hand a 
conductor rod, which on its tip was fitted a decorative star, the sort usually used to decorate 
Christmas trees, while Nagato stood motionless. For some reason, even I had no problem with 
this silent bookworm playing the role of an alien magician. Maybe this role would suit Nagato 
better than the so-called Integrated Data Entity, because she could indeed wield magical powers, 
at least for my eyes, so it can't be wrong. 

Nagato suddenly pushed up the brim of her hat and looked at me with her expressionless eyes. 


I had concerns about how Haruhi decided on her own to use costumes originally designed for 
other classes' activities for her movie, but for her, such problems simply do not exist. 

"Kyon! Have you prepared the camera? Koizumi-kun, I'm counting on you to carry the 
equipment there. Mikuru-chan! Why are you still grabbing the table? Hurry up and move on!" 

Asahina-san's weak resistance was futile. Haruhi simply grabbed the back of the waitress's collar 
and dragged her tiny figure towards the door as she whimpered nonstop. Nagato followed behind 
dragging the tail of her cloak, while Koizumi went last, winked at me, and then disappeared into 
the corridor. 

Just as I was thinking whether it was still possible for me to not go 

"Hey! We can't make a movie without a cameraman!" 

Haruhi stuck her upper torso in the opened door and yelled loudly at me with her mouth wide 
open. Seeing the words "Great Director" written on the armband on Haruhi's left arm, I suddenly 
had an ominous feeling. 

It seemed this girl was dead serious about it. 



Haruhi the self-proclaimed "Great Director," despite not having any prior directorial experience 
before, led the way; the cute waitress lowered her head and followed, while the gloomy young 

witch trailed behind like a shadow. Koizumi carried the paper bags and smiled brightly I tried 

my best to stay as far away as possible while following this eccentric group. 

Already capturing the attention of the school as it walked along, this Halloween costume 
entourage became the focus of attention as it stepped outside of school. Asahina walked 
dejectedly amongst us. After two minutes of walking, she hung her head down low, three 
minutes and she was already blushing furiously, five minutes later, she was basically floating on 
thin air like a depressed ghost. 

Haruhi walked ahead beaming brightly as though the heavens are about to shake, humming the 
theme song of "Heaven and Hell." I don't know when she had it prepared, as I saw her carrying 
in her right hand a yellow loudspeaker, and in her left hand a director's chair, striding gallantly 
like the Mongol hordes marching west across the grassy plains. As I was wondering where she 
was about to strike next, I noticed we had reached the train station. Haruhi bought five tickets 
and handed one to each of us, then marched on as a matter-of-factly towards the ticket turnstiles. 

"Hold it." 



£3 

Asahina-san's weak resistance was futile. Haruhi simply grabbed the back of the waitress's collar and 
dragged her tiny figure towards the door as she whimpered nonstop. Nagato followed behind dragging 
the tail of her cloak... 

I gave my objection before Asahina-san could even speak. I pointed towards the waitress in a 
mini-skirt, who was drawing all the gazes from everywhere, and the black cloaked witch, who 
was standing like a bystander, and said, 


You're going to let them ride the train dressed like that? 



"Is there a problem?" Haruhi pretended not to understand and countered, "If they didn't wear 
anything, they might get arrested. But they're dressed just fine! Or are you thinking that a bunny- 
girl costume would be better? Then why didn't you say so earlier? I wouldn't mind changing the 
working title to 'Battle Bunny-Girl!"' 

This shouldn't come from someone deliberately bringing a person in a waitress costume By 

the way, I thought you said you had the concept of the movie thought out already? I'm not too 
sure about this, but can you just alter the concept of the movie whenever you please? 

I tried my hardest to guess what on earth our director was thinking. 

"The ability to adapt to circumstances is vital. That's how life on earth evolved to this day 
through survival of the fittest. You'll go extinct if you stop thinking! We must learn how to adapt 
in order to survive!" 

Adapt to what? If mother nature were sentient, I'm sure the first thing she would do was to drive 
Haruhi out of the atmosphere of the earth. 

Koizumi was reduced to a smiling slave in charge of carrying the equipment, Nagato remained 
silent, while Asahina-san was too worn out to say anything. In other words, I was the only one 
doing all the talking. 

How I wish someone would think of a way out of this. 

It now looks like Haruhi has interpreted our silence as us being moved to deep thought by her 
speech. 

"Ah, here comes the train! Mikuru-chan, let's go! The show's about to begin!" 

Like a police officer dragging a female criminal whose motive was worthy of sympathy, Haruhi 
pushed Asahina-san's shoulders towards the turnstiles. 


Coming out of the station, I noticed it was the station we had been to the other day, as the 
shopping street was right ahead. Before I could even suspect, I realized Haruhi had even come to 
the exact same store that she had visited. It was the electronic store where she managed to obtain 
the camera. 

"I came as promised!" 


Haruhi entered energetically, the owner stuck his head out and landed his gaze onto Asahina-san. 



Hoho. 


The owner stared at the lead actress with a horny looking smile, while Asahina-san stood stiff 
like one of those combat game characters who had just used up all her special moves. The owner 
then said, 

"She's the girl from the day before? She really looks different today, hoho. Then we're counting 
on you." 

Counting on what? I had instinctively wanted to move forward one step and shield Asahina-san, 
who was trembling, behind my back, but I got pushed back by Haruhi before I could do that. 

"The meeting will now begin, everyone listen up." 

With the same smile that she had after winning the inter-class relay race during sports day, 
Haruhi announced, 

"We shall now start shooting the commercials!" 


"T... the owner of this store, um, he's very generous and kind. This store has been opened by the 
owner Eijirou-san's grandfather, and they sell everything from dry batteries to refrigerators. Oh, 
and um " 

The waitress smiled stiffly as she tried her best to read from the script, while Nagato stood beside 
her holding up a plastic banner that read "Oomori Electronics." The two of them were now 
captured into the viewing window of my camera. 

Asahina-san gave a very clumsy looking smile, carrying a microphone that was not even plugged 
in. 

Koizumi stood beside me and smiled wryly as he carried the placards with the script written on 
them. The placards were basically a sketch book in which Haruhi wrote the script without even 
thinking a while ago. Koizumi flipped the pages of the sketch book in accordance with Asahina- 
san's reading speed. 

We stood outside the entrance to the electronic store, which was right in the middle of the 
shopping street. 

Haruhi sat on the director's chair crossing her legs, and frowned at Asahina-san's acting. 


OK, cut! 



She slapped her loudspeaker onto her palm and said, 


"That was entirely devoid of any emotion. Why can't you convey it? There's just no feeling of 
'that's it.'" 

She said while biting her nails. 

Looking stunned, I stopped recording. Clutching the microphone with both her hands, Asahina- 
san also stopped what she was doing. Nagato was motionless since the beginning, while all 
Koizumi could do was smile. 

The pedestrians walking on the shopping street have now gathered behind us out of curiosity. 

"Mikuru-chan, your expression was too stiff. You need to smile more naturally from the bottom 
of your heart. Think of something happy, aren't you happy right now? You're chosen as the 
female lead after all! There can't be anything happier than this in your whole life!" 

I really wanted to just tell her, Stop being ridiculous already! 

If I had to compress the conversation between Haruhi and the store owner into two lines, I 
believe it would be like this: 

"During the shooting of the movie, we'll make a commercial for this store as well. So can you 
lend us a camera?" 

"Sure, no problem." 

The owner was deluded to actually believing Haruhi's sweet words, while Haruhi was simply 
nuts to think of putting a commercial inside a movie. I had never seen a movie where the female 
lead had to become a spokesperson for a commercial product. I wouldn't have minded if it were 
just simple product placement by shooting the name of the store in the background of some 
scenes, but now we're shooting an advertisement instead of a movie. 

"I know!" 

Haruhi suddenly shouted. What is it that you know now!? 

"It just feels strange to see a waitress coming out of an electronic store." 

Maybe it's because of the costume you chose? 

"Koizumi-kun, give me that bag. The smaller one over there." 

Haruhi received the paper bag Koizumi handed her, then grabbed the dreamy Asahina-san by the 
hand and strode towards the store. 



"Manager! Is there a place where you can change? Um, anywhere would do. Even the bathroom. 
Really? Then we'll use the storeroom!" 


Without even flinching, she then dragged Asahina-san and disappeared into the store. Poor 
Asahina-san didn't even have the strength to resist, and could only follow awkwardly as she got 
dragged by Haruhi's incredible strength. Maybe she was prepared to do anything Haruhi asked as 
long as she could get out of that costume. 

Koizumi, Nagato and I were left standing outside with nothing to do. Nagato wore her black 
costume and continued to hold up her plastic banner while staring at the camera. It's quite 
amazing that her arms never get tired. 

Koizumi smiled softly at me. 

"It seems like I won't be performing anytime soon. I was only in the class play because everyone 
voted to have me in, it's already exhausting trying to memorize all the lines, so I do hope there 

aren't that many lines for this role I'm playing How about it? Why don't you try being the 

male lead?" 

Haruhi's the one who decides who plays what, so you'll have to go ask her. 

"Do you think I am capable of taking on such a frightening task? I dare not imagine an actor 
telling the executive producer and director what to do, since Suzumiya-san's orders are absolute. 

I don't even want to think what retaliatory moves she would have against me if I did that." 

Well, neither do I! Are you saying that's the reason why I'm willing to be a cameraman? Besides, 
we aren't even shooting a movie, but a regional advert for a local store. There's a limit to 
showing your sense of belonging to the neighbourhood. 

I'm guessing a frantic scene was being played right now at the back of the store. I can imagine 
the look on Haruhi's face as she strips the clothes off a defenseless Asahina-san. I wonder what 
she would have Asahina-san wear this time, why doesn't she wear them herself? Her figure is 
just as stunning as Asahina-san's anyway, has she never thought of starring in the movie herself? 

"Sorry to keep you waiting!" 

Of the two people coming out of the store, Haruhi remained in her uniform of course, while the 
sight of the other instantly gave me a trip down memory lane. Has it been six months already? 
How time flies by! So many things have happened since then! Amateur baseball tournament, 

lone island mansion Now that I think about it, these have all become happy memories. 

How was this possible? 

That was Asahina-san's debut performance, the one that made Asahina-san and Haruhi the talk of 
the school instantly. It was the extremely revealing costume that left Asahina-san emotionally 
scarred. 



The impeccable, perfect bunny-girl blushed bright red with tears in her eyes, and followed 
timidly behind Haruhi as her bunny ears swung to and fro. 


"Yes, now that's perfect. It's better after all to do an advertisement in a bunny- girl costume," 

Haruhi said ambiguously and studied Asahina-san, giving a satisfied smile. Asahina-san simply 
looked traumatized, as though half of her soul had flown out of her half-opened cherry red lips. 

"Mikuru-chan, let's start over again. You've memorized the script already, I'm sure. Kyon, roll 
the tape." 

Who would have the mood to listen to her when she's dressed like that? When this movie plays, 
I'm sure the audience would be paying attention to the bunny-girl played by Asahina-san instead. 
It would be fortunate if the screen didn't get burned by the staring gazes of the audiences. 

"And, take 2!" 

Haruhi yelled and slapped her loudspeaker sharply. 


Finally, the shooting of the electronic store advertisement starring Asahina-san, who was smiling 
and crying at the same time while being toyed around by Haruhi, was complete. The whole thing 
felt like watching a foreign wrestler being manipulated by an evil agent in every match. 

But, having gotten to this point, I realized we had visited another store before. I didn't even need 
to speculate, as Haruhi was already thinking of making a commercial for them as well. 

Asahina went "Ah~!" and "Kyaa~!" cutely as she got dragged along by Haruhi down the 
shopping street. Meanwhile Nagato followed slowly behind Koizumi and me like a phantom in 
her usual flat wizard expression. 

I placed my jacket over Asahina-san's exposed back, trying to console her. Perhaps doing so only 
increased the attention from the onlookers even more. After all, this world is populated by people 
with strange tastes. Let me make it clear by the way, those are not my tastes. 

We went to the second model toy store and repeated what we had done before. Under the 
watchful eyes of the curious bystanders, Asahina-san looked tearfully at me - the lens of the 
camera, that is. 

"Th... This model toy store was opened by Yamatsuchi Keiji-san, age 28, who ignored the 

objections of his parents and left his life as a white-collar worker In order to fulfill his 

dreams As expected, the sales didn't grow as planned. Sales for the first half of this year was 

only 80% of last year's, and the sales curve have fallen towards the lower right corner of the 
chart That's why... Please do come and take a look around!" 



Asahina-san's speech was totally unconvincing. Would the owner Yamatsuchi-san even accept 
such an advertisement? He would probably be even more dejected than he was now. Who would 
want to be treated to such a speech by a high school student anyway? 

The bunny-girl was now being forced to aim the model rifle she was holding upwards. 

"Please don't aim this at people, try it on empty cans instead!" 

Nagato stood behind staring blankly forward, holding up a plastic banner that read "Yamatsuchi 
Model Store." It was such a surreal sight. As Asakura Ryoko looked like a normal person with 
emotions, that meant not all the alien-created humanoid interfaces behaved like robots. I think 
Nagato only behaved like that simply because she was programmed that way in the beginning. 

Asahina-san now aimed the rifle towards the empty cans laying on the ground and fired at them. 

"Ah! I think this would hurt if you get hit! Ahhh~~! ! !" 

Asahina-san yelled timidly as the aluminum cans slowly became dented like a beehive. This 
shooting demonstration caused a commotion among the bystanders, though Asahina-san's aim 
accuracy was only 1%. 

Somehow I just felt that shooting all these scenes into the DV recording camera was a complete 
waste. I felt sorry for both Asahina-san and the guy that designed this camera, since this camera 
wasn't supposed to be made to shoot such silly scenes. 


And so the day ended after shooting of the stupid commercials had ended. 

We returned to school first to listen to Haruhi announce the upcoming shooting schedule. 

"As tomorrow, Saturday, is a holiday, everyone must come early. We meet at nine in front of 
Kitaguchi station, you hear?" 

But, the commercials alone were already 15 minutes long. Just how long was the movie going to 
be? No one is going to be able to finish a three-hour movie shown in a school festival, and I'm 
not optimistic about the box-office receipts either. 

I thought this to myself while noticing how depressed Asahina-san was. She rode the train 
dressed as a waitress when going out, and returned as a bunny-girl. Right now, changed back 
into her uniform, she now knelt on the ground looking completely worn out. At this rate, the 
female lead is going to fall asleep during shooting. 



I finished drinking the Genbi tea that Koizumi made in place of Asahina-san, who rested her 
head on the table looking tired, and said, 


"Haruhi, can't you think of any other costumes Asahina-san can wear? Aren't there any other 
battle costumes that suit the occasion better? Like some military costumes or cheerleader 
costumes?" 

Haruhi waved her conductor rod fitted with a star at its end and said, 

"There's no originality in wearing such costumes. It is only by dressing as a waitress that the 
audience can go 'Ooohhh—!' It's important to grasp what the audience is thinking. That's what 
they call concept!" 

I really wonder whether she even understood what a concept is, as all I could do was sigh. 

"Forget it Let's leave that aside. Why must the female protagonist be set as coming from the 

future? I don't see what difference it makes to the story!" 


Asahina-san shuddered a bit while lying on the table. Haruhi didn't notice that, obviously she's 
not giving up, 

"We'll consider that sort of stuff later, we'll worry about it when someone voices a concern." 
Didn't I just voice a concern!? Answer the question! ! ! 

"If an answer can't be thought out after consideration, then it's best to leave it alone! It doesn't 
matter anyway. What matters is that it's interesting!" 

Provided you can make it interesting. What are the chances of you making a movie that's 
interesting? What's the point in making a movie for which only the director feels an interest? Are 
you trying to get nominated for the Golden Raspberry Awards? 

"What on earth's that? I only have one objective, that is to get voted the best event of the school 
festival! If possible, I wouldn't mind getting a Golden Globe. In order to achieve that goal, it's 
important that Mikuru-chan wears the right costumes!" 

I don't see how anyone could fret over such stuff. I have a feeling Haruhi was compelled to do 
this after getting pissed off watching a crap movie that somehow won the Golden Globe awards. 

I sighed again and looked towards the side. Dressed all in black, Nagato had returned to her 
corner in the club room and once again was indulging herself in her world of books. What was 
wrong with her? Would she die if she wasn't reading something in this room? 


Hang on. 



Looking at the alien who loved reading, I suddenly thought of something, 


"Hey, I still haven't seen the script yet." 

It's not just the script that's missing, I don't even know what the story is. All I knew was that 
Asahina-san was a waitress from the future, Koizumi was an esper youth, while Nagato was an 
evil alien magician. 

"It's not necessary." 

Just what was Haruhi thinking!? She suddenly closed her eyes and pointed to her forehead with 
the star on her conductor's staff, 

"Because e — verything is in here, the script and the storyboard. You don't have to worry about 
anything, I'll think of all the scenes that need to be filmed for you." 

A bold statement. You should be the one who need not do any thinking and can just stare out the 
window. If you looked a bit more gentle and serious, you could compete with Asahina-san with 
no problem at all. 

"Tomorrow guys! Let's march bravely forward. In order to obtain glory, one must start on the 
mental side. It is the fastest way to victory without ever spending any money! When you free 
yourself from the cage of your mind, you'll be able release your potential that you never even 
knew you had. That's the way!" 

That would probably work in those combat comics, but no matter how hard you try to spew out 
how to control your state of mind or how to go international, it's still going to be a long way 
before the Japanese soccer team could win the World Cup. 

"That's it for today! Let's look forward to tomorrow! Kyon, don't forget the camera, equipment 
and costumes. Be punctual everyone!" 

Haruhi then grabbed up her bag with all her force and bolted out of the room. As the humming of 
the "Rocky" theme song diminished down the corridor, I looked resentfully at the pile of 
equipment that I had to carry. Just to which society do I complain about the tyrannical actions of 
this director? 


So far today, our school life had been as normal as it gets, just that it got spiced up, to the level 
of nearly losing control, by Haruhi's over-enthusiasm in the making of her movie. If a survey 
were conducted on the high schools on the whole nation, I'm sure there are other people who are 
just as eccentric as us. In other words, they're all living a "normal" life. 



I wasn't attacked by Nagato's people; I didn't go time traveling with Asahina-san; and I didn't 
encounter any giants that shone like a glowing piece of blue mold; lastly, I never experienced 
any murder mysteries with a ridiculous truth hidden inside. 

It was a normal school life. 

As the school festival approaches, Haruhi's excitement was now reaching boiling point. The 
endorphins in her mind now spin as quickly as a hamster on an exercise wheel, whipped to run at 
near Mach speed. 

Anyway, all that was normal. 


So far, that is. 


Thinking carefully, I'm sure Haruhi had probably began to control herself in her own way. 
Thinking further, I realized we hadn't even shot a single frame for the movie. All that the digital 
camera contained were video clips of Asahina-san dressed as a bunny-girl advertising for the 
local electronics and toy model stores. The SOS Brigade movie directed by Haruhi did not even 
have a framework; even the story was a mystery. 

Perhaps it was better if it remained a mystery. 


Even if we ended up showing a documentary of Asahina-san introducing the shops in the local 
shopping district, it would not be a problem at all. Actually, wouldn't this sort of movie attract 
audiences better? Besides, it's beneficial to the local economy of the shopping district, so that's 
two birds with one stone. Ah yes, let's make an Asahina Mikuru advertisement special! I think I'd 
like this better. As her cameraman, I mean what I say. 

But, knowing Haruhi better than anyone, she's not going to be satisfied with that. She's going to 
press on, doing what she said she intends to do. She's not the sort of person to give up halfway. 
Such a troublesome girl who sticks to her principles ! 

And so, from the second day onwards, we once again found ourselves in a strange and dire 
situation. I don't know how to describe this... How did Haruhi phrase it again? 

When you free yourself from the boundaries of your mind, you'll be able release your potential 
that you never even knew you had. Something like that. 

Makes sense. 


But, Haruhi, 



Why is it that you are the only one whose potential got released? 
And you aren't even aware of it yourself. 


(Chapter 2 End) 


Chapter 3 

Chapter 3 


Saturday came. 

We were to meet at the station. When I arrived carrying all the equipment using the largest 
backpack I could find in my house, I discovered that the other four were already waiting for me. 

The sight of Haruhi in her casual clothes and Asahina-san in her usual cuteness was just as 
captivating as usual. They looked like a pair of mismatched sisters. Asahina-san, who looked 
more like the younger sister despite being older, wore some mature styled clothing. 

Surrounded by three weird people, Asahina-san breathed a sigh of relief as she saw me and 
nodded while waving at me. Ah, that feels good. 

"You're late!" 

Haruhi may be yelling at me, but she was obviously quite happy. The reason her hands were 
empty was because she had stuffed the loudspeaker and director's chair into my baggage as well. 

"It's not even nine yet," 

I frowned and said. I looked aside and saw Nagato's porcelain statue-like expression and 
Koizumi's relaxed smile. Speaking of which, today's a holiday. While it was normal for Nagato 
to still wear her uniform as she always did, why was Koizumi wearing his uniform as well 
today? 

"This is my costume for the movie, apparently," 


Koizumi replied, 


"She told me that yesterday. I will be playing an esper disguised as a high school student." 

Isn't that what you are!? 

I put down the bags which were stuffed with the camera and all the other shooting equipment 
and wiped the sweat off my forehead. Haruhi showed an excited face like an elementary school 
kid ready to set off on a field trip and said, 

"Kyon, you'll have to pay a fine since you're the last to arrive, but not now. Right now, we need 
to ride the bus. I'll be paying for the fares, as that's part of the expenses anyway, but you'll have 
to treat everyone to a meal." 

After unilaterally making this decision, she waved her hand, 

"Everyone! The bus stop is this way! Follow me!" 

I now noticed the armband on her arm was now labelled "Ultra Director." Looks like Haruhi 
thinks she's above even a Great Director. Was she about to make an awesome movie? 

Let me clarify once more, I still believe making an Asahina-san video special would be more fun 
than this. 


After a bumpy thirty minute bus ride we got off at the bus stop at the bottom of the hill. We then 
spent another thirty minutes arduously climbing up the mountain path. 

We arrived at a forest park such as can be found anywhere in the countryside. This was a place I 
was very familiar with ever since I was in elementary school, because every year when it comes 
to going out on a field trip, we always end up going hiking at the nearest mountain. 

This was only a park in name, since all the authorities did was open up an empty patch on the hill 
and build a fountain over it. It was so empty that I can't help but wonder why on earth did I climb 
so high here anyway. It's only the little kids, having no concept of what entertainment is, who 
feel happy coming here. And bringing those little kids here were most likely their parents. 

Using the fountain in the center of the plaza as a starting point, we decided to make this our base 
for today's filming. Haruhi, who was empty-handed, had an unlimited amount of energy oozing 
out, while I was nearly worked out like a dog. If I hadn't shoved half of my baggage to Koizumi, 

I was sure I would be lying dead on the mountain path already. So, once we arrived at the park, I 
leaned against the equipment bag which was mainly used for backpacking journeys, trying to 
catch my breath. 


Would you like a drink? 



A plastic bottle appeared before my eyes. Asahina-san was holding it. 


"I drank half of it already, so if you don't mind " 

As this Oolong tea was made by the gods, it must be as sweet as all the heavenly elixirs 
combined. This has nothing to do with whether she had drunk of it or not, because I would 
probably be condemned if I refused this. Before I could gracefully accept this gift, a hand from 
the evil devil pushed off the hand of the angel, as Haruhi grabbed the Oolong tea from Asahina- 
san and said, 

"Leave this for later! Mikuru-chan, now is not the time to give water to these servants in charge 
of menial tasks. If we don't start soon, we'll be wasting all this good weather. So let's start the 
filming already." 

Asahina-san opened her eyes widely, 

"Eh ? Right here?" 

"Of course. What did you think we came here for?" 

"But don't I have to change? There's nowhere here I can change " 

"That won't be a problem. Look, everywhere is full of these." 

Haruhi's finger was now pointed towards the green forest surrounding the park. 

"No one would come if you change in the forest, it's like a natural changing room. Come on, let's 
go!" 


"Eh?...KYAA — !! ! H. . .HEEEEEELP — ! ! ! " 


Before any help could be rendered, Asahina-san was dragged away by Haruhi and they 
disappeared into the forest. 


Asahina-san reappeared wearing her lively waitress costume, with two ponytails tied behind the 
back of her head. Her eyes looked shyly at the wild flowers growing by the side of the road. 

One of her eye colors looked very strange, truly. Only her left eye was blue, just what was in her 
eye? 


That's a colored contact lens, 



Haruhi explained, 


"Having different colors for each eye is also an important factor. Just look at her, isn't her aura of 
mystery even greater now? All it takes is a little trick. That's a hint!" 

She grabbed Asahina-san's chin from behind her back and tilted her little face slightly sideways. 
Asahina-san can only look perplexed while being toyed around by Haruhi. 

"There's a secret hidden with this blue eye," Haruhi said. 

"Because if we don't provide any meaning to this, then there's no big deal in having different 
colored eyes." 

Seeing Asahina-san's exhausted, worn-out look was already quite a big deal. 

"Then what's the secret with that colored contact lens?" 

"Right now it's still a secret." 

Haruhi smiled and replied. 

"Hey, Mikuru-chan! How long are you going to daydream for? You're the star of the show! Your 
greatness is only second to that of the executive producer and director! Now straighten your 
back!" 

"KYAA — !" 

Asahina-san made an eerie scream, and was forced by Haruhi to make a pose. Next, Haruhi 
made Asahina-san carry a gun (a toy gun, that is). 

"Show the feel of a female assassin! Make people strongly feel you're from the future!" 

Haruhi began making all sorts of unreasonable requests, while Asahina-san tried frantically to 
make all sorts of poses towards me - the camera that is. She didn't really need to work this hard. 
Seriously. 


In the meantime, Haruhi has shown an abnormally high amount of enthusiasm in this. I too have 
seen movies that bored the hell out of me. But never once did I think "I could do better than 
that," and then proceed to try and make a movie myself, and I don't even know how a movie is 
made anyway. Even if I did shoot a movie, I don't believe I could make it any better myself. Yet, 
Haruhi really thinks she has the talent to be a director. At least she believes she can make a 



movie better than the cheap B-movies shown on late nights. Just where did such confidence 
come from? 

Haruhi waved her yellow loudspeaker and yelled, 

"Mikuru-chan! Don't be so shy! Set yourself free! Immerse yourself into the character's role and 
you'll do fine! Right now you're the female protagonist Asahina Mikuru!" 

Of course I knew there was no basis for Haruhi's confidence. She was born with that 

groundless confidence, which causes the world to constantly fall into chaos. Otherwise she 
wouldn't be wearing such a ridiculous armband and smiling so boastfully. 

Under the instructions of Haruhi the director, we began the filming of the memorable "Action 1." 

The scene was named as such, but all it involved was me carrying a camera and filming Asahina- 
san running across the plaza. I was told this was the opening scene. I felt we should at least have 
a script, but Haruhi said as a matter-of-factly that there was no such thing. 

"It would be troublesome if what we wrote gets leaked out." 

That was her reason. It looked as though she was going along the style of those Hong Kong 
action movies (making it up as you go along). To be honest, I was already exhausted, but 
compared to Asahina-san, who had to run breathlessly carrying two guns in her hands, my 
situation wasn't too bad. 

Under our watchful gazes, Asahina-san continued to run, wavering left and right along the way. 

It wasn't until after "Action 5", when the director signalled an "OK" gesture, that she slumped 
tiredly onto the ground. 

"Huff huff " 

Ignoring the waitress who put her hands on the ground, catching her breath, Haruhi turned and 
gave her orders to Nagato, who had been waiting aside all this time, 

"We now begin the battle scene between Yuki and Mikuru-chan." 

Wearing her favorite black costume, Nagato stepped in front of the camera. As all she did was 
put a black cloak over her uniform and wear a black pointed hat on her head, she didn't have to 
be dragged out to the forest to change, so she should count herself lucky. But Nagato looked like 
the sort of girl who wouldn't flinch a bit no matter where she changed. I wonder what it would be 
like if their roles were switched? With Nagato as the waitress while Asahina-san would be the 
magician. It would be a surreal sight, but it sounds good. 

Haruhi had Asahina-san and Nagato stand three meters apart facing each other. 


Mikuru-chan, I want you to shoot mercilessly at Yuki. 



"Eh?" Asahina-san looked shocked. She shook her untidy hair, which was messed up after 
running for so long, and said, "But we can't use this to shoot people " 


"Don't worry! Mikuru-chan, you're bound to miss anyway with your skills. Even if you do shoot 
on target, Yuki would be able dodge easily." 

Nagato stood still, silently holding the rod with a decorative star attached to its end. 

I thought to myself - even if you were to pull the trigger on Nagato at point blank range, she 
would still be able to dodge it faster than the speed of lightning. 

"Well " 

Asahina-san looked timidly at Nagato like a rookie waitress who had just broken a plate and was 
reporting to a scary looking chef. 

"It's fine..." Nagato replied, then spun the rod in her hand, "...go ahead and shoot." 

"Mikuru-chan, even Yuki says she's fine with it, so fire all you like. Let me just make this clear, 
don't fire both guns at the same time, but one by one alternately! That's the basic skill of a 
double-barrelled gunman." 


Koizumi lifted the light reflector board high above his head, I had no idea where Haruhi got her 
hands on this one. The Movie Club was probably reporting a theft to the police right now. By the 
way, Koizumi, aren't you supposed to be the male lead? 

"I'm not confident of adapting to any changes that would come along during filming, so instead 
of being filmed, I much prefer doing this. Yesterday I've been wondering, can't I just remain as a 
backroom crew " 

"Huh?" 

Asahina-san carried a bulky model machine gun and fired ceaselessly with her eyes closed. 
Standing aside, I had this scene recorded into my camera. I wasn't able to see clearly where the 
BB bullets went, but from the sight of Nagato standing still without even flinching, it seems she 

wasn't even hit. Was it because of her magic When I began to suspect that, Nagato slowly 

lifted her wand, she then waved it swiftly and the bullets just fell on the ground in clinking 
sounds. She wasn't wearing her glasses, yet her keen eyesight continues to amaze me. 

Nagato never moved her gaze away from the gun. She was unusual like that, it's as though she 
wasn't aware, "It wouldn't be natural if I don't blink," yet she was only making herself stand out 



even more. I don't think I would be surprised whether she walks without blinking or smashes 
through the ceiling and moves instantaneously. So I wasn't at all fazed by that. 


Nagato was like a broken windshield wiper, swinging her wand occasionally. Every time she 
waved her wand, the BB bullets would make a clattering noise as they hit on the ground. 

But, this was a pretty monotonous battle scene. Nagato was busy waving her wand, while 
Asahina-san simply fired the two guns on her hands, without a single bullet hitting its target, as 
Haruhi only told her to "fire all you like," she didn't even provide a script. The only lines of 
dialogue I could hear were Asahina-san going "Ah — ! Kyaa — ! ! It's so scary! !" 

When Asahina-san used up all the bullets in her guns, Haruhi tapped her shoulder with her 
loudspeaker. I put down my hand-held camera and walked towards Haruhi, who was sitting on 
the director's chair, 

"Hey, Haruhi. Just what kind of movie is this? I don't see any story in it at all." 

The Ultra Director glanced at me and said, 

"It doesn't matter, since I plan to edit the scenes during post-production anyway." 

Who's going to do that? I meant the editing of course. Of course, I did sort of remember part of 
my duties involved editing. 

"At least have some sort of dialogue!" 

"When there's a problem, we'll just remove the background sound and dub them over during 
editing. We'll add the sound effects and background music as well then. We don't have to worry 
about those now!" 

Now that I think about it, as the story only exists in your head, there's no room for us to do any 
thinking anyway. But I must at least make sure that Haruhi's sexual harassment of Asahina-san 
gets reduced to a minimum, as well as forbidding any other guys besides myself to touch her 
body. That's my bottom line, surely no one has a problem with that, right? 

"Now for the next scene! Yuki's counter-attack. Yuki, use your magic and attack Mikuru-chan 
with all your might ! " 

Nagato didn't move, save her dark eyes staring out at me from under her black hat, and tilted her 
head in an angle only I could notice. I think Nagato was trying to ask me "Is it really OK?" 

The answer was of course "No." There was no way I would let anyone injure Asahina-san in any 
way, let alone by magic. Just look at Asahina-san, don't you see her trembling with a pale face 
already? 



Of course Haruhi had no idea Nagato could wield such incredible magic, I think what she meant 
was to have Nagato perform something that looks like magic. 


Nagato seemed to understand what I thought of as well, she said nothing and lifted her wand, 
then waved it like how fans in a pop concert would wave their fluorescent tubes. 

"Forget it," Haruhi said, "I'll add in the visual effects later on. Kyon, remember to create effects 
that has rays coming out from Yuki's wand during post-production." 

How should I know how to make such visual effects? It would be a different story if we could 
borrow some assistance from Industrial Light & Magic, though. 

"Mikuru-chan, scream in agony and then fall on the ground looking tormented." 

Asahina-san hesitated for a moment, then she then muttered " AH" and fell forward face 

down with her hands lifted up. Standing besides her was Nagato, like the God of Death who had 
just claimed Asahina-san's soul. I had this scene recorded, while Koizumi stood beside me 
holding the reflector board. 

The staring glances of the bystanders who had been standing around us now felt like needles on 
my back. 


Haruhi finally decided to have mercy on us and granted us a break. We all sat down together on 
the ground exhausted. 

Haruhi rewound the video I just recorded and played it again, muttering something to herself 
with a concerned look. 

A few curious kids ran towards Asahina-san and Nagato and asked, "What TV program is this?" 
Asahina-san could only smile weakly and shake her head, while Nagato had completely ignored 
their presence and blended in with the background. 

From beginning to end, Haruhi never once explained what the scenes that we shot were going to 
come out as. So I was completely in the dark when the Ultra Director announced that our next 
location would be the shrine nearby. Was the break over already!? 

"There 're pigeons there," 

Haruhi said, 

"We need a scene with Mikuru-chan running with the pigeons flying in the background! If 
possible, I'd prefer all the pigeons to be white, but I guess I can't be picky now." 



I guess we'll just have to find some domestic pigeons. Haruhi wrapped her arm around an already 
exhausted Asahina-san's arm (probably to prevent her from escaping), and walked through the 
forest park towards the main road. I carried the equipment with Koizumi and followed them, like 
the local sherpas hired to handle the baggage of a filming crew sent to do a documentary. We 
arrived at a large shrine in the middle of the mountain. It's been a while since I last came, not 
since a field trip in elementary school. 

Haruhi stood in front of a sign that says "Don't feed the pigeons," she then began to openly throw 
bread crumbs around like a gardener determined to make the wilting flowers blossom again. All I 
could say about this is that she's probably illiterate. 

Nearly covering the ground completely, the swarm of pigeons now gathered over at once, and 
more landed from the air. A shrine that is covered by feathers just doesn't feel comfortable at all. 
Asahina-san followed instructions and stood within the sea of pigeons. Standing in front of the 
waitress, I recorded her legs being pecked at by various beaks as her lips shivered nonstop. Just 
what was I doing? 

Haruhi stood offscreen carrying the gun Asahina-san had been holding and clicked off the safety 
switch. Before I could wonder what she was up to, she suddenly began shooting like mad 
towards the side of Asahina-san's legs. 

"KYAAA — !!!" 

Asahina-san's terrified look was so real, I've never seen such an expression before. Due to 
Haruhi's insane action, which was enough to drive the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to 
Animals into a fit of rage, the symbols of peace were now goggling and flying off all at once 
after such a scare. 

"That's it! That's the scene I want! Kyon, make sure you get it all in!" 

The camera's rolling, so it should be working, right? Standing among the torrent of flying 
pigeons, Asahina-san squatted down and covered her head with her hands. 

"Mikuru-chan! Why are you squatting? You need to use the flying pigeons as a background and 
run towards here! Hurry up and get up!" 

Looks like now was not the time to idly shoot a movie, as instead of the SPCA, an old geezer 
that seemed like the shrine priest now bolted out from the interior of the shrine. He was dressed 
in a hakama, which would suggest he had something to do with the priest. I was already prepared 
to be berated by him when Haruhi, without hesitation, used her secret weapon. 

She fired her CZ (or was it SIG) toy pistol towards the old geezer. I then saw the image of a 
priest (I think he's one) who seemed to be dancing non-stop on the sizzling hot ground. There's 
no doubt the Respect for the Elderly Society would protest strongly. 


Retreat! 



Haruhi yelled and then ran off at once. As for Nagato, I don't know when she left, as she was 
already waiting for us by the torii far ahead. Seeing as Asahina-san won't be able to escape 
quickly, Koizumi and I lifted her by the arm on each side and carried her off along with the 
equipment. 

Since the director had run away, we couldn't just leave the female lead behind as the scapegoat. 


Ten minutes later, we're now having a meal in a fast food restaurant, which for some reason I 
have to pay for. 

"Perhaps I've missed something. I was thinking maybe it would be better if we cast that old priest 
as a villain," 

Haruhi said this about stuff borderlining crime. 

After sipping three strings of noodles, Asahina-san lay flat on the table. 

"Mikuru-chan, you eat too little. How are you going to grow that way? You'll only attract a 
specific set of fans if all you have to offer are your breasts. You gotta straighten your back." 

Haruhi said as she snatched Asahina-san's noodles and began munching on them. 

I knew. I don't know in how many years, but I just know that Asahina-san's face and figure 
would eventually develop to Miss World standards. Although she doesn't know that herself. 

Koizumi only smiled wryly, while Nagato silently brought her club sandwich to her mouth and 
began munching. I pushed my emptied plate aside and said to Haruhi, who had just eaten two 
sets of lunch, 

"What are you going to do if that priest decides to complain to the school? Our cover's been 
blown by Koizumi's uniform." 

"That shouldn't be a problem," 

Haruhi sure is optimistic, 

"We were standing quite far from him, plus you see that sort of school jacket everywhere. We'll 
just deny any knowledge of it and pretend it has nothing to do with us. The BB bullets won't be 
much of an evidence against us." 



I looked at the video camera that carried all the evidence and thought, wouldn't everything be out 
in the open once this movie gets shown? I simply do not believe that there were two waitresses 
out there at the same moment being surrounded by pigeons in a shrine. 

"So where are we going next?" 

"We need to go back to the plaza. I've been thinking, such a location alone won't be sufficient for 
creating an intense battle scene. In order to captivate the audience, we need something more 
drastic. Well, I have a lot of ideas, like Mikuru-chan running like mad in the forest, while being 
chased by Yuki. And then Mikuru-chan would fall off the cliff, only to be rescued by Koizumi - 
kun, who happened to walk by. What do you think of such a story development?" 

That was such a retarded story development. Where can you find a male high school student who 
just happened to walk by a forest in his uniform? Wouldn't that be too unnatural? Being the "wild 
card" that she is, Haruhi may really just push Asahina-san off the cliff. If that's the case, Haruhi, 
why don't you jump down yourself? Become Asahina-san's stunt double and don that costume as 
well. Hmm, though the breast size may be a bit different 

Just as I was thinking about that, Haruhi lifted her eyebrow and stared at me, 

"What are you thinking? Don't tell me you're having illusions of how I'd look in that waitress 
costume." 

Indeed, you've guessed correctly. 

"I'm the director, after all. I can't just happily appear in front of the camera. If I had to chase two 
rabbits around, I'd just trip over the tree roots and break my nose." 

Aren't you the Executive Producer as well? 

"The crew can have as many titles as they want, but it's not too bad to play a character that only 
appears once in a while like precious jewelry. We need to add in factors that can make those 
fanatics excited." 

Just what fanatics were you intending this movie for? Asahina fanatics? Up till now, the whole 

movie has been nothing but an Asahina Mikuru uniform special! But then again, that was 

good enough. 

Koizumi very elegantly placed a cup of milk back on the table and said, 

"Are the three of us the only characters in this movie?" 

You idiot! Stop asking unnecessary questions! 


Well. 



Haruhi now pursed her lips as she did whenever she was in deep thought. Shouldn't you consider 
things like these beforehand? 


"Three people doesn't seem like a lot. Indeed, it's too few. We need some extras to better reflect 
the protagonist's energetic spirit. Thanks for reminding me of that, Koizumi-kun. As a token of 
my gratitude, I'm going to increase your screen time." 

"Ah why, thank you." 

The smile on Koizumi's face now read "Oh shit." Serves you right! I knew nothing good would 
ever come out of this, therefore I said nothing. 

On the other hand, where does she expect to find new characters? There's a 75% chance that the 
people that she finds randomly are queer characters. According to the order, the next person 
would probably be a dimensional slider, but I have a feeling that such a person probably wouldn't 
want to come to this world in the first place. 

"Before the boss is defeated, we need to have minions to beat first. Minions, minions " 

Haruhi placed her finger under her lips and glanced at me. 

"Those guys would do, right?" 

I, too, had guessed who Haruhi was thinking of. Taniguchi and Kunikida. They were the only 
two who could be brought along without creating too many problems. They're the safest choice, 
the ultimate minions who're even more insignificant than mere extras. More harmless than a lone 
wandering ghost. 

"I guess so." 

I turned my gaze away from the director, who was thinking of whom else to bring over, and took 
a glance at Asahina-san lying on the table with closed eyes. She looked so cute even when 
sleeping, she was mesmerizing even if she was only pretending to sleep. 

I then turned my sight towards Nagato, who was sipping her soda deeply with her straw. 
Admiring her wooden expression, I then asked, 

"Then, what're we filming next?" 

Haruhi gulped the bowl of noodle soup down to her stomach, it took quite a while for her to 
finish, 

"At any rate, I want Mikuru-chan to suffer as much as possible. Since the theme of this movie is 
about a girl who has to face all sorts of adversity, then against all odds manages to overturn them 
at the end and live happily ever after. The more Mikuru-chan suffers, the more catharsis she 
would have. Don't worry, Mikuru-chan, this is going to be a 'happy ending'." 



So only the final bit is "happy"? Before that, Asahina-san could only accept Haruhi's tyrannical 
abuse. What kind of script did Haruhi prepare anyway? Seems like I am the only one who can 
apply a brake to her derailing behavior, so I need to be more careful and watch over her 
constantly. And what the hell is this catharsis thing? 

Asahina-san had her tightly shut eyes opened half way, she looked at me with a pair of unique 
eyes, with the left eye blue in color, as though asking me to save her. But she then sighed softly 
and slowly closed her eyes. What's that supposed to mean? That I'm not reliable enough? 

Right now, when Koizumi and Nagato could not provide a barrier to the oncoming tsunami, only 
I am on your side. 

Yet, for the past six months, no matter what I do, I just couldn't put a stop to Haruhi's insanity. I 
know very well that what I'm doing is very futile, yet I'd like her to at least appreciate my 
chivalric passion. 


Frankly speaking, I don't think I've ever tried stopping Haruhi. Half a year ago, I thought that 
even if I had to cut off Haruhi's arms, I must have her give up the thought of creating the SOS 
Brigade. Yet judging from the outcome, when I was still looking confused, Haruhi had already 
prepared the club room and members, in the end, even I had fallen into her trap and became a 
member myself That is the outcome today. 

But if I had whacked the back of that girl's head with a baseball bat, or maybe stopped her with a 
surprise attack, I probably wouldn't have met Asahina-san, or Nagato and Koizumi. I would 
probably know them through other means. In other words, maybe I would never find out that 
they possess ridiculous true identities as aliens or time travelers. I would just know them as 
normal schoolmates, as we walk past each other in the corridor. 

Don't ask me which path I would have preferred myself. As I have already heard the other three 
members declare their identities, and I've seen Nagato's terrifying powers, Asahina-san who has 
grown up into another person, and Koizumi's eyes turning red. If I visited a parallel world, 
maybe I'll come across another version of myself who has never spoken to Haruhi or the other 
three members. So if you have any questions, go ask that other "me," I don't know anything 
myself. 


Yet right now, I was in a situation where I can't say with confidence that I don't know anything. 
Hmm, making a movie from scratch for the school festival, there's nothing strange with that. 
What was strange is Haruhi's head, but that was a known fact, so there's nothing astonishing here 
either. Haruhi spouting idiotic stuff like suddenly wanting to make a movie was nothing new. To 
me, it was just another routine job, all I needed to do was just go along with what she says and 
hope everything works out 



That's what I thought, which was why I didn't stop her from making this movie. I don't care if 
you're the director or whatever, just do whatever you like! Manipulate everyone around you to 
your heart's content! If that makes you feel better, then I'm willing to suppress the endless sighs 
within my heart and go with you to the end. Because the last thing I want is to be trapped with 
you inside an unknown dimension. 

I thought about all this while looking at the boastful Haruhi and worn-out Asahina-san, the 
smiling Koizumi and the mask-like expression of Nagato. 


I had no idea that the moment I regretted not stopping Haruhi would arrive so quickly. 


We returned to the plaza in the forest park. Couldn't we do something about this lack of 
planning? If we had known about this, we should've done all the filming before going to the 
shrine! The biggest problem was that the script only existed inside Haruhi's head. It was 
important after all to convey meanings into words, preserving information down in paper has got 
to be the greatest idea ever. 

"I think we should give up on the guns. I had thought the bullets would be impressive, yet there 
was no flare or sound at all, that really takes the intensity away. I don't think they're useful at all, 
they're just toy models after all." 

Haruhi seemed to just treat the Yamatsuchi Model Store as a mere sponsor. She then proceeded 
to mark two large crosses on the ground with the tip of her sneakers. She was probably marking 
the spots where Asahina-san and Nagato should be standing. 

"Mikuru-chan stands here, Yuki stands over there." 

"Um." 

Being spun around in circles, Asahina-san now treaded heavily as though she had just burnt a 
whole day's worth of calories. She was too mentally exhausted to resist as she walked onto the 
stage in her sexy waitress costume. She was now beyond shame, having regressed to the mental 
state of a young child, moving like a doll. 

Nagato, who was already like a doll, walked quietly towards her designated spot and stood 
silently. Her black cloak fluttered in the mountain breeze blowing downhill. 


Haruhi pointed her finger towards the toy gun she had snatched from Asahina-san and said, 



"Don't leave that position, I want to film you two facing off with each other. Koizumi-kun, 
prepare the reflector board." 


Haruhi then returned to her director's chair, she aimed the gun in the air and pulled the trigger, 
"ACTION!" 

She yelled with the top of her voice. 

I quickly held my camera up, but Asahina-san was probably more confused than I was. Action? 
Haruhi only told them to stand still, she didn't specify what other action they should make. 


Nagato and Asahina-san stood silently and looked at each other's expression. 
"Um " 

Asahina-san was the first to turn her gaze away. 


Nagato continued to stare at Asahina-san. 


Asahina-san went silent as well. 

And so, this staring scene under the mountain breeze went on endlessly. 

"That's enough!" 

For some reason Haruhi became pissed, 

"How can you have a battle like this?" 

Because the two of them were just standing still. 

Replacing the gun with a loudspeaker, Haruhi walked towards Asahina-san and knocked her on 
the head, which had two soft brown ponytails tied by Haruhi herself. 

"Mikuru-chan, listen up. No matter how cute you are, you must never let your guard down. Cute 
girls can be found everywhere! If you live your life peacefully, you'll be surpassed by other 
younger girls in no time ! " 


What are you trying to say? 



Asahina-san rubbed her head innocently, Haruhi then said in a sage manner, 

"Which is why, Mikuru-chan, you need to fire laser beams from your eye!" 

"Eh?" 

Asahina-san widened her eyes in astonishment. 

"But that's impossible!" 

"This is the reason why that left eye has a different color! I didn't just change your eye color to 
blue just because I felt like it! Hidden in that eye is an incredible power, the ability to shoot laser 
beams. So fire your Mikuru Beam!" 

"I... I can't!" 

"Try your hardest!" 

Haruhi wrapped Asahina-san's head under her arms and smacked Asahina-san's head with her 
yellow loudspeaker. 

The scene of Asahina-san yelling out in pain was just too tragic. I handed the camera over to 
Koizumi, who had put down the reflector board and was looking bemused at this scene, and 
grabbed Haruhi's collar. 

"Stop it, you idiot!" 

I pulled the little waitress away from the tyrannical Ultra Director. 

"Normal humans can't just fire laser beams from their eyes. Are you a moron?" 

Just look at Asahina-san rubbing her head with her hands! Look at how crestfallen she's become, 
she's now weeping pearl-like tears down her face already. 

"Hmph," 

With her collar still being grabbed by me, she turned her head away and muttered, 

"Of course I know that." 

I let go of her, Haruhi knocked her own neck softly with her loudspeaker, 

"I just wanted her to give an awesome impression of firing out laser beams, since she doesn't 
have the aura that a protagonist should have. You sure are lacking a sense of humor." 



That's because your humor isn't even funny, and that's a big problem. What are you going to do if 
Asahina-san really could fire laser beams? 

It's not possible, is it? 

I turned my eyes uncomfortably towards Asahina-san and tried to gesture to her. Asahina-san 
looked at me with her teary eyes. She blinked her large round eyes while tilting her neck slightly. 
Looks like I just can't communicate with Asahina-san with my eyes. While I was thinking that, 
Koizumi came forward and shamelessly gave his advice, 

"I'm sure we could take care of that by using CG effects during editing?" 

Koizumi smiled gently like a con man and handed a box of tissues over to Asahina-san. 

"Hasn't Suzumiya-san planned to do that since the beginning?"" 

"Of course I have," Haruhi said. 

Like hell you have. I thought to myself. 

Asahina-san rubbed her eyes dry with the tissue and blew her nose, then looked suspiciously at 
both Haruhi and me. 

Nagato was like a puppetmaster who stood out a lot and stood quietly in the wind. How come the 
sun hasn't gone down yet? Because I can't wait any longer for the time when filming has to stop 
due to insufficient light. 

"We'll redo that scene again," 

Haruhi said and began to discuss how to perform the important pose. 

"Mikuru Beam! You need to shout that and make this pose." 

"L... Like this?" 

"No, like this! And, close your right eye." 

Haruhi's concept was to place the left hand over the left eye in a V-shaped sign, then fire the 
beam upon the blink of the eye. 

"Mikuru-chan, try saying it out." 

" Mi, Mi, Mi, Mikuru Beam!" 


Louder! 



Mikuru Beam! 


"Don't be shy, louder!" 

"Um Mikuru Be -am!" 

"Amplify your voice with your abdomen!" 

What the hell was that? 

Asahina-san, who was blushing furiously as she shouted loudly, was now being forced by Haruhi 
to shout with her abdomen. The staring glances of the kids passing by on the plaza along with 
their parents were becoming unbearable, I really wanted to tell them that there's nothing to see 
here. But as we were making a movie, we were basically like a travelling circus troupe attracting 
attention. Actually it wasn't too bad to just shoot these well prepared scenes. I had no idea how 
happy Haruhi's happy story can get, but if the purpose was to promote Asahina-san, then this was 
too much. 



Asahina-san, who was blushing furiously as she shouted loudly, was now being forced by Haruhi to shout 
with her abdomen. 

A moment later, Asahina-san and Nagato returned to their battle positions; Koizumi stood aside 
and held the reflector boards with his hands held up as if preparing to yell Banzai, while Haruhi 
sat proudly on her director's chair. I stood about two meters behind Nagato's black silhouette and 
filmed Asahina-san over her shoulder - this was the filming angle that Haruhi demanded. 

The change that followed came very suddenly. 


OK, now fire the beam! 



Haruhi shouted, Asahina-san made her pose without any confidence, 

"Mi Mikuru Beam!" 

The camera recorded her unnatural dejected voice as she shouted cutely and blinked. 

At that moment, the camera lens which I was looking through suddenly went pitch black. 
"Huh?" 

I didn't know what was going on, I even thought the camera must have broken down. I moved 
my eye away from the camera and saw an ominous black costume and pointed hat standing 
before me. 


Nagato made a fist-like gesture in front of my eyes. So she was the culprit who caused the lens to 
go pitch black by covering it with her right hand. 

"Huh?" Haruhi also opened her mouth looking astonished. 

The large cross that Haruhi drew was two meters in front of me, all this time Nagato was indeed 
standing over there. When Haruhi shouted "Action" and Asahina-san made her cute shout, the 
video camera did in fact show Nagato's back. So how did Nagato manage to stand before my 
eyes in less than a second, as though grabbing something in her fist? I can only use spatial 
distortion to explain this phenomenon. 

"Huh?" Haruhi also looked confused and said, "Yuki, when did you run over there?" 

Nagato didn't answer, and just aimed her obsidian-like eyes towards Asahina-san. Asahina-san 
widened her eyes and gave a terrified expression, she then slowly blinked 

Nagato's hands once again moved at the speed of light, and grabbed something in the air as 
though catching a flying mosquito. What happened to the star-shaped magic wand she was 
holding? 

Huh? I thought I just heard something strange, like a match that got lighted and then swiftly 
thrown into the drain. 

"Eh ?" 

Making a confused sounding exclamation was Asahina-san, she probably had no idea what was 
going on. Neither did I. What was Nagato doing? 



As if asking for help, Asahina-san turned her eyes towards the side and a strange noise came 

from Koizumi's direction. I can't be mistaken, it sounded like a broken car tire that was leaking 
gas 

The reflector board that Koizumi was holding - which was basically a piece of cheap white 
polystyrene board - was now sliced diagonally in half. It was rare to see the usually quiet 
Koizumi looking stunned at the half of the reflector that got sliced off. But I didn't have the time 
to enjoy such a scene. 

Nagato made her move, and it was only Nagato. 

The black figure leaped and softly landed in front of Asahina-san. Nagato then took her right 
hand from under her cloak and grabbed Asahina-san's face, the little fingers pressed against 
Asahina-san's forehead as though covering up her eye. 

"Kyaa Na... Nagato-san !" 

Nagato hooked Asahina-san's leg and pushed the female-lead waitress down onto the ground. 

The Goddess of Death now sat on top of those voluptuous breasts like riding a horse. Asahina- 
san yelled wailfully, grabbing Nagato's slim arms, which were doing the attack. 

"Ah!" 

I finally came to my senses, but what on earth was going on? At first I thought Nagato merely 
obstructed my recording instantaneously, but I didn't understand what followed as Koizumi's 
reflector board was sliced in half, and then the time traveller got attacked by the alien. Just when 

did Haruhi tell them to act that way It doesn't seem like it, since the director was just as 

stunned to silence as Koizumi and I were. I don't think it has anything to do with their superb 
acting. 

" Cut!" 

Haruhi stood up and slapped her loudspeaker against the chair. 

"Hold it, Yuki, what are you doing? This wasn't in the script!" 

Nagato quietly sat on Asahina-san, whose smooth white legs were now exposed as she struggled 
to get up as Nagato grabbed her face. 

I heard someone muttering behind me, I turned and found Koizumi staring at the sliced edge of 
the reflector board and twisted his mouth. Noticing I was looking at him, he gave me a strange 
glance. What's that supposed to mean? 

Forget it, I don't care about Koizumi's enigmatic stare. What's important now was to stop Nagato, 
who had suddenly made her attack for no reason. I held my camera and ran towards the waitress 
and black-cloaked magician, who were huddled in one tableau. 



"Hey, Nagato, what are you doing?" 

The pointed hat turned slowly towards me. Nagato looked at me with her black hole-like eyes, 
her small lips looked as though they were about to open, 


I expected her to say something, but in the end nothing was being said. Nagato looked as though 
she didn't know which words to use and closed her lips, and then slowly stood up. The black 
cloak waved slightly on the right side as she stuck her arm back inside. 

"Sob " 

Lying on the ground, Asahina-san looked traumatized. Of course she would be, if Nagato 
suddenly ran towards me without any emotion and then pushed me down, I think I'd be scared 
silly as well. Because right now Nagato was like those Dark Wizards that people would last want 
to see when walking at night. A pre-schooler would probably piss in his pants at the sight of her. 


Nagato tilted the rim of her large pointed hat towards her brow and stood still, looking at me. 

I lifted Asahina-san, who was trembling all over, by the arm and helped her up. Asahina-san 
sobbed as tears trickled down her face, her eyes, which were covered by long eyelashes, were 
now soaked wet with tears, which further increased her charm Huh? 

"That's ridiculous, just what were you two doing? Stop doing stuff that isn't written in the script." 

The director who didn't even write a script came over, then both she and I exclaimed at the same 
time, "Huh?" 

"Mikuru-chan, what happened to your contact lens?" 

"Ah " 

Asahina-san, who was now clutching my arm tightly, placed her finger under her left eye. 

"Eh?" 

It was natural for the three of us to look confused, we'll just have to ask the person who knows 
the full details. 

"Nagato, have you seen Asahina-san's contact lens?" 


I haven't. 



Nagato replied without flinching. I had a feeling she's lying. 

"Could it have dropped off during the brawl just now?" 

Haruhi guessed incorrectly and began to look around the ground. 

"Kyon, come help look for it as well. That lens isn't cheap, you know, it's the best of its kind." 

I knelt down on all fours and began to help Haruhi look for it. Though I knew it was a waste of 
time, since I had seen that Nagato was grabbing something in her right hand when backing off 
from Asahina-san and then had hid it away. She then pushed Asahina-san down on the ground 
and grabbed her face. 

"I can't find anything." 

Haruhi twitched her mouth. I felt sorry for her, since I wasn't seriously searching. I turned around 
and saw Koizumi toying around with the two sliced pieces of the reflector board, sticking them 
together then splitting them apart. You should at least come over and help! 

Koizumi smiled and said, 

"Maybe it got blown by the wind, since it's very light." 

Koizumi spouted his bullshit, then showed me the broken reflector board. Haruhi stood up from 
the ground and snatched it away. 

"What happened? It's broken? Hmph, as expected from a cheap product. Man, the school's 
Movie Club sure knows how to buy crappy stuff. Koizumi-kun, try and stick them back together 
with sellotape." 

Haruhi spoke in an unconcerned way, then turned her crocodile like eyes towards an awestruck 
Asahina-san, whose tears had stopped by now, 

"We can't continue the scene without the colored contact lens, what should we do?" 

She seemed to be thinking seriously, then snapped her fingers as though a light bulb in her head 
had lit up, 

"That's it! We'll change it so that the eyes would change color after transformation!" 

"T, Transformation?" Asahina-san asked. 

"That's right. It would be too inappropriate for you to wear a waitress costume. We'll designate 
this as the costume after transformation, you'll wear something more natural the rest of the time." 



I found it utterly ridiculous for someone to look for realism in an already ridiculously fictional 
world, Haruhi sounded as though she has admitted herself that a waitress costume was too 
inappropriate. Asahina-san nodded her head quickly, 

"S, sure! I'd like to wear something normal as well." 

"So during normal periods, Mikuru-chan would be wearing a bunny-girl costume." 

"EH!? W,w,why?" 

"Because we only have that costume. If you wore some normal costume, it wouldn't look 
attractive enough. Hang on! As for the setting, I just thought about it as well. Normally, Mikuru 
would be a bunny-girl attracting customers in the shopping street, yet in times of danger, she 
would transform into the Battle Waitress! What do you think? It's perfect, right?" 

Didn't you just say it was too inappropriate? 

"OK, let's go." 

Haruhi now revealed a sinister looking, crescent moon-shaped smile. She grabbed Asahina-san's 
arms and carried Asahina-san on her back. "Eh? W...wait! Owww! ! !" The waitress screamed 
distressfully as she got carried away into the forest. 

Hmm. 

Well, that's fine with me. I can only clasp my hands together and show my apologies to 

Asahina-san, because I've been waiting for Haruhi to leave for some time already. I'll be looking 
forward to your bunny-girl costume, I won't let your sacrifice go in vain. 

That's right, I must go and ask Nagato about the whole affair. 

"Well, what was that abrupt performance all about?" 

Nagato held the rim of her pointed hat down with her left hand. She hid half of her face under the 
shadow of the hat, then slowly stuck out her right hand. Though she was covered completely by 
the cloak, I could still see the white sleeve of her sailor uniform. Nagato then stuck out her right 
forefinger, and there was rested the blue contact lens. 

So it really was you who took it away. 

"This." 

Nagato said slowly, 


Laser. 



She then stopped talking again. 


Hey, I've been wanting to tell you this for some time, you have not reached the minimum 
standards required for conveying messages clearly! At least speak for about ten seconds! 

Nagato stared at her finger and said, 

"A high intensity pulse transparent ray." 

She said in a very slow speed. I see, it's a highly intensity pulse transparent 

I'm sorry, I'm getting even more confused now. 

"A laser?" I asked. 

"Yes." Nagato replied. 

"Now that's amazing." Koizumi said. 

Koizumi picked up the contact lens from Nagato's finger and examined it under the sunlight. 

"It looks like a very normal piece of lens." 

He said something "really impressive," but I didn't see how I should be awed by this, and so I 
was hardly "impressed." 

"What's that supposed to mean!?" 

Koizumi smiled and said, 

"Could I please have a look at your right palm? Not yours, I meant Nagato-san's." 

The black cloaked girl looked at me, as though asking for my permission, and so I nodded back 
at her. After obtaining my permission, Nagato opened up her remaining four fingers, which were 
shut tightly a while ago. I gasped at what I saw. 


A silent breeze blew past the three of us. I suddenly felt a sense of shiver, as I finally understood. 
So that explains everything. 

On the surface of Nagato's near wrinkle-less palm were a few black holes, which looked as 
though it was burnt by a red hot pincers. There were about five of them. 



I was not able to contain it. 


Don't talk in such a relaxed manner, it looked painful enough just looking at it. 

"It was very powerful and happened in an instant." 

"Did the lasers come from Asahina-san's left eye?" Koizumi asked. 

"Yes." 

What do you mean "yes?" Has Koizumi gone nuts as well? Have they figured out what was 
going on already? 

"Commencing recovery at once." 

Nagato said, then we looked as the black holes began to shrink and disappear in the speed of 
light and her palm returned to its usual white smoothness. 

"Just what was going on?" 

I could only look astonished, 

"Did Asahina-san really shoot beams from her eye?" 

"Those were not particle accelerators, but intensified rays." 

What difference does it make? I don't care whether it's lasers, masers or atomic heat rays used to 
destroy Mothra's cocoon, it's all the same to a layman like me. What's the difference between an 
ion cannon and an antiproton cannon anyway when both can be used to defeat the monster? 

The problem was, why did Asahina-san fire atomic heat rays even when there're no monsters 
around? 

"It's intensified rays, not atomic heat rays." 

Didn't I just say it makes no difference? I don't need such scientific verification. 

Nagato quietly retracted her right hand, I rubbed the back of my head, while Koizumi flicked the 
piece of contact lens lightly with his finger. 

"Did Asahina-san originally come with this ability?" 

"No," Nagato swiftly rejected that hypothesis, "Presently Asahina Mikuru is a normal human 
being, her body no different from other people. " 

"Does this colored contact-lens have any special features in it?" Koizumi continued to ask. 



No, it is just a decoration. 


It has to be, since Haruhi was the one who brought the piece of contact lens. Yet that was exactly 
where the problem was, it was because she was the one who had bought it that made it even 
more significant. 

This was something which had to be throughly investigated. If Nagato hadn't dodged in front of 
me, then the laser from Asahina-san's eye would have gone through the camera lens and straight 
into my eye, then exited from the back of my head after burning everything inside, especially my 
brain, which would probably stink like hell after being burned badly. That wouldn't be a good 
sight. 

Speaking of which, I feel pretty embarrassed at having Nagato come and save my life again. 

"In that case," 

Koizumi rubbed his chin and smiled wryly, 

"This was the work of Suzumiya-san, right? Since she had wanted a Mikuru Beam, so reality had 
been altered in accordance with her wishes." 

"That is correct." 

Nagato's expression remained blank when making such a firm response. I could never be as calm 
as her. 

"Hang on! There's no magic inside this piece of contact lens, right? So why did a killer laser 
appear just because Haruhi wished for it?" 

"Suzumiya-san does not require magic or any sort of science. As long as she believed something 
'exists,' then it would truly 'exist.'" 

I don't think I could accept such an inverted way of thinking. 

"Haruhi doesn't really wish for Asahina-san to fire beams from her eye. That was just for the 
movie, didn't she say so herself? It was just a joke." 

"Indeed." 

Koizumi nodded his head. Don't just accept my challenge so easily, how am I supposed to 
continue like that? 

"We all know that Suzumiya-san does possess some form of common sense, but it is also a 
known fact that the common sense of this world doesn't apply to her. Perhaps it was probably 
due to some extraordinary event this time Ah, they've returned. Let us discuss this later." 



Koizumi casually placed the piece of contact lens into his shirt pocket. 


This is such a bother. 

Using human intelligence to do battle with a mysterious force that threatens to destroy the Earth; 
beating down the bad guys; having a supernatural battle as though it were a daily routine; 
interspersed with some drama within 

To be honest, I much prefer being in that sort of story. If I didn't have to face such circumstances 
now, I'd rather be involved in a totally fictional setting, the more ridiculous the better. 

But look at me now. All because I spoke to a certain classmate, I ended up triggering the source 
for all these disasters, meeting all sorts of weird people, and doing all sorts of strange stuff. 
Firing beams from the eye? Just what the hell was that? Does it have any meaning to it? 

Thinking back at the strange trio, neither Asahina-san, Nagato, or Koizumi could really prove 
their identities. The three of them all casually introduced themselves, yet I was crazy enough to 
actually believe them. While I may have experienced events that I have no choice but to believe 
had happened, there was a limit to everything, and I have my own sets of standards as well. 
Though these standards have become more and more strange lately. 

According to their statements: Asahina-san is a time traveler from the future. She never said 
which year she's from, I only know the reason she came here - to observe Suzumiya Haruhi. 

Nagato was an artificially created Living Humanoid Interface by some alien entity. "What the 
hell is that?" You ask, you wouldn't understand even if I told you. I'm sure half of us wouldn't be 
able to understand, myself included. What were these people like her doing on this planet then? 
Nagato said it's because her boss, something called the Integrated Data Sentient Entity, was very 
interested in Suzumiya Haruhi. 

As for Koizumi, he's an esper sent by a group calling themselves the 'Organization'. One of his 
missions involved him being transferred to this school and observing Suzumiya Haruhi. 

Although Haruhi, who plays a central role in all of this, has known this trio with extraordinary 
backgrounds for some time already, she has no idea of their true identities. Asahina-san 
described her as a "temporal distortion." Nagato said she was a "self-evolution possibility." 
Koizumi was even more ridiculous, simply calling her "God." 

Thanks for the hard work, guys. 

I know this is asking a lot, but please do something about Haruhi! Otherwise this female brigade 
commander is going to remain an enigma and have us forever trapped within her enormous 



gravitational field like a neutron star. It was still fine now, but think about what would happen in 
ten years time ! What would happen if Haruhi still behaved as she did today? It would be very 
troublesome. Illegally occupying the club room, walking in strides with a scowl on her face, 
starting a ruckus for no reason, and being moody all the time. People would still tolerate her 
during her teens, but they wouldn't be so easy on her once she gets older. She won't be able to fit 
into society by then. Do Asahina-san, Nagato, and Koizumi intend to still be with her, still doing 
the same stuff then? 

If so, allow me to leave first. I'm sorry, I have no intention of staying like this, since time doesn't 
wait. You can't just reset a life easily, and there are no save points lying around in some back 
alley allowing you to save your progress. 

This has nothing to do with Haruhi distorting time, creating a data explosion, or destroying and 
creating worlds. She and I are two different people. There's just no way I can play cat and mouse 
with a kid forever. Even if I wanted to, in the end I still have to go my own way. It may be in a 
few years, or a few decades away, but the time will eventually come, no matter what. 

"How long are you going to moan for? You're used to this already!" 

I turned and saw Haruhi dragging Asahina-san out from the forest. 


"Show some dignity as a professional actress! Changing without hesitation is the fastest way to 
the Blue Ribbon Rookie Award! And it's not like I'm asking you to strip naked. After all, one 
needs to keep their precious dignity intact." 

Haruhi now sounded like a foxhound who had just caught a rabbit. Haruhi dragged the bunny- 
girl Asahina-san out, whose high-heeled shoes doesn't seem suitable for walking on the dirt, and 
revealed a smile so bright it could make a person sneeze. 

"If this movie's a success, I'll take everyone to a hot springs trip using the box office receipts. 
Think of it as a reward for all the hard work! You want to go too, don't you, Mikuru-chan?" 

But Forget it. Before this ends, I might as well ride on her train of madness for now. The 

reason I hang out with you is because I too am involved in this movie plot that you have set up. 
If I take Koizumi's perspective, then I have nothing to lose. Sadly, I don't possess any unknown 
powers. 

So, allow me to happily be your backroom staff for now. 


Maybe in a few years time I would look back and laugh at this, saying, "Wow, did that really 
happen?" 



I think. 


Dressed in her bunny-girl costume, Asahina-san now looked even more embarrassed than when 
she was wearing the waitress costume. Haruhi, on the other hand, was beaming brightly. What 
are you so giddy about? 

I pretended to adjust the focus of the camera and zoomed in onto Asahina-san's breasts. I needed 
to confirm that thing first. 

There on the left of Asahina-san's white bosom was a small birthmark, looking carefully, it was 
in the shape of a star. Confirmation complete, this is indeed my Asahina-san, and not an 
impostor. 

"What are you doing?" 

Haruhi's face suddenly appeared in front of the lens. 

"Don't shoot scenes that I don't want. This isn't your private video camera, you know." 

Of course I know that! I didn't even press the record button yet, I was merely looking. 

"All right, everybody! Listen up! Next, we'll be filming the daily life of Mikuru. Mikuru-chan, 
you'll need to walk naturally around over there while the camera follows you behind." 

What kind of daily life involves walking around in a bunny-girl costume in this kind of park? 

"It doesn't matter. In this movie this is absolutely normal. It doesn't make sense to ask for realism 
in a fictional world!" 

That's supposed to be my line! It's because you've brought in fictional elements into this reality 
that things are getting messed up now! 

Afterwards, unaware that she could now fire killer beams, Asahina-san underwent acting lessons 
under Haruhi's supervision, as she went around picking up flowers, blowing brown leaves off the 
palm of her hand, and running around on the grass. Slowly but surely she was falling apart with 
fatigue. 


Then Haruhi delivered the knock-out blow, 



"Hmm, it doesn't seem right to have a bunny-girl running around in the mountains. This 
background just doesn't fit at all. Let's go back to the streets!" 


Without flinching, Haruhi completely overthrew what she just said. As a result, we had to ride 
the bus again to return to the city. 


No longer having to do any lighting work for now, Koizumi carried under his arm the reflector 
board, sloppily repaired with sellotape, as well as half of the equipment that I stuffed to him, 
while his other arm held the handrail. 

I stood next to him, while standing like a shadow besides us was Nagato. Only Haruhi and 
Asahina-san sat on the empty seats. Haruhi snatched the camera from my hands and sat on the 
double seats, filming Asahina-san from her side. 

Asahina-san lowered her head and softly answered Haruhi's questions. I'm guessing the lead 
actress was being interviewed by the director right now. 

The bus meandered down the winding hill road and towards the residential area. I secretly prayed 
that the driver would concentrate on driving safely instead of glancing at the rear-view mirror all 
the time. 

Perhaps my prayers were heard, since the bus finally arrived safely at the terminal. All this time, 
the other passengers have been sitting at a distance, nearly all of them staring at Haruhi, Asahina- 
san, and Nagato. The wobbling bunny ears and the smooth white exposed shoulders were just too 
deadly. By now, rumors of Asahina the Bunny-Girl have probably spread to the whole town, not 
just in North High. 

Maybe that's exactly what Haruhi had in mind. "I heard there was a pretty bunny-girl riding a 
bus yesterday. " "Oh, I've seen them. " "What are you talking about?" "I hear there's a club in 
North High called the SOS Brigade. " "The SOS Brigade?" "That's right, the SOS Brigade. " "SOS 
Brigade, huh? I'll remember that. " Was she aiming for such a development? Asahina-san isn't 
the SOS Brigade's cover girl! In a way, she's supposed to be the tea maid and my anti-depressant. 
I'm sure she thinks the same as I do, definitely. 

Of course, with Haruhi, she wouldn't be able to hear the thoughts of other people. Because she is 
built with an amazing device that ejects any unfavorable opinion out the moment it enters her 
ears. If I could find out the secret to how this device works, I'm pretty sure the Selection 
Committee for the Nobel Prize in Physiology would nominate me in their shortlist. Anyone here 
want to give it a try? (The secret is to just make up some bullshit.) 



Until the sun had set, Asahina-san spent the rest of the day as a bunny-girl. What did she do in 
that outfit, you ask? Well, not much, apart from running around in this costume. This was no 
different from those Hunt for Mysterious Events activities, but this time she was even more worn 
out as she has to put up with the stares from other people, worrying if someone might call the 
police. Haruhi has no concept of what a filming permit is. It was Haruhi's freedom to shoot 
wherever she liked. Her freedom was as unrestrained as that of the Pope Innocent III in the third 
century - 1 think. In fact, she's completely misinterpreted the true meaning of freedom. 

"That's it for today." 

Finally, Haruhi had the expression of having a hard day's work done. Besides Nagato, the rest of 
us all breathed a sigh of relief. What a long day. I'm going to take a break Sunday. 

"Then see you tomorrow. We meet at the same time and place as today." 

She sure doesn't know when to stop. I didn't know you had the power to ask the school to 
compensate for our holidays. 

"What are you talking about? We're already lagging behind in our filming schedule! Now is not 
the time to rest idly! You can relax all you like once the school festival is over! Before that, just 
pretend the red numbers don't exist on the calendar!" 

We're only on the second day of filming. Can't you do something about the poor time planning? 
What do you mean by lagging behind? Does that mean all the hours worth of filming today won't 
be used at all? Was Haruhi trying to make a series franchise? This is just a movie made 
specifically for a school festival, not a big budget production. 

Yet Haruhi doesn't look worried at all. She stuffed all the equipment on me, and wearing only 
her armband, she gave an impeccable smile, 

"Then we'll meet tomorrow! I'll make sure this movie is a success. No, since I'm the director, 
success is already guaranteed. The rest is up to you. Make sure you're punctual! Absentees will 
be personally executed by me!" 

After making this announcement, she left humming the tune of "Rock is Dead" by Marilyn 
Manson. 

"I'll inform Asahina-san about it." 

Koizumi whispered softly to my ear before leaving, Asahina-san was covered in Koizumi's 
school jacket. If it were winter, I would have brought my own jacket. Sadly, the weather now 
was still stuck in the end of summer. I looked at the equipment piled up by my feet with a feeling 
of frustration. 



Inform her of what? 


"About the laser. As long as there's no change in eye color, then no strange beams would be 
fired. I think that's how Suzumiya-san's rule works. So there won't be a problem if she doesn't 
wear any colored contact lens." 

The lighting assistant, whose job was just to hold up the reflector board, now gave me a 
professional smile like one of those insurance agents. 

"Just to be safe, I think we should take some precautionary measures. I'm sure she will cooperate. 
After all, those beams are dangerous stuff." 

Koizumi then walked towards the black cloaked Nagato, standing like an anthropomorphized 
piece of glass. 


As I returned home carrying various sized bags of equipment, my sister looked astonished at me 
as though she had seen a strange creature. This elementary schoolgirl, the culprit responsible for 
spreading that stupid "Kyon" nickname around, now jumped around yelling, "Is that a camera? 
Wow! Can I play with it, too?" I yelled, "Get lost, idiot!" And promptly returned to my room. 

I was so exhausted already. The thoughts of becoming a voyeur cameraman had long evaporated 
from my head. Of course, it would be a different story if it involved Asahina-san, but I'm not that 
sick as to want to preserve video images of my own sister! I mean, where's the fun in that? 

After putting down all the bags on the floor, I laid down on my bed at once. I had a brief moment 
of peace, before my sister, under my mom's orders to call me down for dinner, attacked me with 
her deadly elbow strike. 

(Chapter 3 End) 


Chapter 4 


Chapter 4 


The following day, we once again reluctantly waited in front of the station. This time, however, 
instead of the three SOS Brigade members, I found myself standing alongside some new faces. 
The so-called "minion characters" that Haruhi had called for, 

"Hey, Kyon, this is different from what you told us," 

Taniguchi protested and said, 

"Where's the beautiful Asahina-san? We only came because you said she would come pick us 
up! But I don't see her anywhere." 

Sure enough, it's already past the appointed time and Asahina-san has yet to arrive. She's 
probably hiding in her house wanting to skip class today, after going through so much during the 
past two days. 

"I only came so that I could satiate my visual appetite, but what is this? So far all I've seen is 
Suzumiya looking pissed. This is a rip off!" 

Stop complaining! Why don't you observe Nagato as well then? 

"Now that you mention it, Nagato-san's costume sure suits her." 

This was Kunikida speaking casually, as he was chosen as minion number two after Taniguchi. 
Haruhi had called me on the phone last night while I was taking a shower. Taking the phone 
receiver my sister handed to me, I washed my hair as I heard her saying over the phone, 

"That idiot Taniguchi and that other guy. ... I can't remember his name. . . Anyways, they're your 
friends. Bring those two over tomorrow. I want to use them as minions." 

After saying that, she promptly hung up. You should at least say "Hi!" When making requests 
you should ask people in a polite way, not order people around! Just like how Asahina-san 
makes her requests. 

I didn't know what plans Taniguchi and Kunikida had for their vacation, so I called their cell 
phones after my shower. The two extras with a lot of free time agreed to come right away. Just 
what do they do on their holidays anyway? 

Maybe she thought two guys weren't enough, because Haruhi brought another extra. This extra 
bent forward as though she was bowing and examined Nagato, whose eyes were covered by her 
wide -rimmed hat. She hung her very long hair and smiled at me, 

"Kyon-kun, how's Mikuru?" 

Tsuruya is this energetic girl's name, who happens to be Asahina-san's classmate. According to 
Asahina-san, she’s. . . "A friend I've met in this age", so I guess there shouldn't be anything queer 
about her. Back in June, when Haruhi wanted to enter the baseball tournament, Asahina-san 



brought this second year schoolgirl to help make up the numbers. Oh yeah, Taniguchi and 
Kunikida were there as well, and even my sister came. 

Tsuruya-san generously revealed her shining white teeth and said, 

"So what are we doing today? She told me to come over if I had time, so I came. What's that 
armband on Suzumiya-san's arm about? What's that handheld camera for? And what's with 
Yuki's costume?" 

She bombarded me with question after question. Just as I was about to answer her, Tsuruya-san 
had already walked off towards Koizumi, 

"Wow, Itsuki-kun! You look awesome as usual today!" 

She sure is a busy person. 

Haruhi was just as energetic, as she shouted in a deafening tone towards her cell phone early in 
the morning, 

"What!? You're the protagonist! 30% of the success of this movie depends on you! Of course, 

I'm responsible for the remaining 70%, but that doesn't matter! What'd you say? A stomachache? 
Stop kidding me! Only an elementary school kid would use such an excuse! I give you thirty 
seconds to come here at once ! " 

It seems Asahina-san has begun to lock herself in, like a hikkikomori. When she realized she had 
to go through the same thing again today, it's only natural for her to suffer a mentally induced 
stomachache. She is a faint-hearted person, after all. 



£3 


She bombarded me with question after question. Just as I was about to answer her, Tsuruya-san had 
already walked off towards Koizumi... 



Really! 


Haruhi furiously hung up her phone, then revealed a menacing glare that looked like that of a 
butler about to scold a child who doesn't know her table manners, 

"She deserves some punishment!" 

You shouldn't be saying that. Asahina-san isn't like you. She only wants to live her life 
peacefully, or at least take a break on Sunday when there's no school. Even I too thought so. 

Of course, Haruhi wasn't going to allow the female lead to go AWOL. The director who 
demanded so much from the lead actress without even paying her anything said, 

"I'll go fetch her. Lend me that bag for now." 

Haruhi snatched the bag containing the clothes and rushed straight towards the taxi stand. She 
then knocked on the window of the taxi parked in front, had the driver open the door, and after 
she quickly dove into the car, the taxi drove off immediately. 

Now that I think about it, I don't even know where Asahina-san lives, though I've been to 
Nagato's place many times... 

"I can understand how Asahina-san feels." 

Without my even noticing, Koizumi was standing by my side and talking to me. 

Tsuruya-san now greeted the two bozos from my class non-stop and said, "Yo, long time no 
see!" Koizumi smiled at the sight, then said, 

"I have a feeling she really will become a transforming magical girl if things continue going the 
way they are now. After all, she's even fired laser beams. It's getting ridiculous already." 

"What can be more ridiculous than this?" 

"You're right. If she were told to spit fire from her mouth, it wouldn't be too hard to train..." 

Asahina-san isn't a monster. Neither is she a circus performer, or even some evil wrestler. 

What'll happen if she burns those cute lips of hers? Who's going to be responsible for that? Don't 
tell me you're going to take responsibility. 

"No, if there were something that I have to be responsible for, it would be standing by idly until 
the 'Avatars' begin to wreak havoc. Fortunately, things still haven't deteriorated to such a level... 
That has only happened once, I believe. I'm really grateful of you back then. Thanks to you, the 
disaster was averted and contained." 



About half a year ago, the world was nearly destroyed thanks to Haruhi. It was thanks to my hard 
work and mental exhaustion that mankind was able to survive. I felt it wouldn't be too much if all 
the heads of state around the world were to give me a thank you letter. So far I have yet to be 
visited by any foreign diplomatic envoy. Sigh, on the other hand, even if they had come they 
would have only increased my woes, so I didn't expect them to come. The only reward I received 
was being embraced by a teary-eyed Asahina-san, yet when I think about it, that’s more than 
enough for me. So I didn't feel any gladness at being thanked by Koizumi. 

"As for that Mikuru Be..." 

Stop calling her by her first name; it pisses me off. 

"I'm sorry. Right now we should be able to prevent Asahina-san from firing anymore strange 
beams." 

How did you do it? Should you be this optimistic just because Haruhi didn't bring any colored 
contact lens this time? 

"No, we've eliminated that factor already. I asked Nagato-san to help out a bit." 

I turned my gaze towards the girl who was standing still and staring at the shops in front of the 
station, and then looked back at Koizumi again, 

"What did you do to Asahina-san?" 

"Don't be so nervous, we merely removed her ability to fire lasers. I'm not too sure how, as 
unlike the other TFEI interfaces, Nagato-san wouldn't say anything. I only asked her to reduce 
the threat posed by Asahina-san to zero." 

"What on earth is a TFEI?" 

"It's just an abbreviation we use amongst ourselves, you don't have to know what it stands for. I 
feel that Nagato-san is the most outstanding one among all of 'them'. I've been wondering, what 
else is she responsible for besides being a simple communication interface?" 

What he meant was - What else does this silent girl that loves reading do besides observing 
Haruhi? Some people still find it a pity that Asakura Ryouko had disappeared, though personally 
I don't feel sad at all. 


About thirty minutes later, the taxi carrying Haruhi had returned, also inside was Asahina-san 
wearing her waitress costume. Like yesterday, she still looked very gloomy. Haruhi asked the 
driver for a receipt, she probably wanted reimbursements for her expenses. 



Taniguchi and Kunikida looked at them and muttered, 

"One night when coming home from the convenience store, I came across a taxi," 

"And?" 

"And instead of a 'For Hire' lamp on top, I saw that the taxi lamp read 'Love Car'." 

"You must’ve been surprised?" 

"Before I could confirm, the taxi had driven off. It was then that I realized, isn't love what I'm 
lacking right now?" 

"Did that taxi really have a 'Love Car' lamp on it? That must've been some custom made taxi." 

I can't help but be amazed by the conversation made by these two idiots, and I had a feeling that 
the shortage of talent was becoming very serious. If Taniguchi and Kunikida were nickle alloys, 
then Tsuruya-san would be platinum. Their difference would be between that of a firework and 
the Apollo 1 1 spacecraft. 

"Ah, Mikuru has come by taxi! Eh? Who are you?" 

Tsuruya-san's pitch was very high, her slightly medium-high pitch voice was probably just a 
pitch lower than Haruhi's abnormally high natural pitch. Though Tsuruya-san should be within 
the bounds of the normal world. 

"Wow! You're so sexy! Where does Mikuru work at? Don't you have to be at least eighteen? 
Huh? Aren't you just seventeen? Oh, don't worry, since we're not customers anyway." 

Asahina-san's teary eyes now reveal their natural colors, it seems there's a shortage of colored 
contact lens. 

Haruhi now dragged the tiny waitress out of the car, 

"What do you mean sick? I won't let you use such an excuse! We're going to continue filming! 
Next would be the exciting scenes of Mikuru-chan! This is all for the SOS Brigade! No matter 
what age they are, the audience will always be moved by acts of self-sacrifice!" 

Then go sacrifice yourself! 

"In this world, there's only one female protagonist. To be honest, I'd like to be that person, but 
this time I've generously allowed you to play that role, at least until the school festival ends!" 

In this world, no one would acknowledge you as a female protagonist! 


Tsuruya-san clapped her hands against Asahina-san's shoulders, causing her to cough frantically. 



"What's this costume? A racing girl? What role are you playing? That's it! You can wear that at 
the fried noodle shop during the school festival! I'm sure that it'll attract lots of customers!" 

I really do understand Asahina-san’s wanting to become a hermit. When faced with continuously 
fierce attacks, no one is going to stand on the pitcher's mound and be the pitcher. 

Asahina-san slowly lifted her head, then with the look of someone about to die for her religion, 
she looked at me as though begging for help, and then looked away. She slowly breathed a soft 
sigh, but she still managed to give a weak smile and walk in strides towards me. 

"Sorry I'm late." 

I looked at the top of Asahina-san's head, which was lowered down, and said, 

"It's alright, I don't really mind." 

"I'll treat you to lunch..." 

"There's no need to, don't worry about it." 

"I'm so sorry about yesterday, it seems like I unexpectedly fired an optical weapon..." 

"It's fine, I'm not hurt anyway..." 

I took a peek at my surroundings. Nagato stood while staring blankly and holding her staff with a 
star attached to its end. Asahina-san looked at me, lowered her already soft voice and said, 

"I was bitten." 

She rubbed her left wrist. 

"Bitten by what?" 

"By Nagato-san. I heard it was for the injection of some nanomachines... But, my eyes don't 
seem to be able to fire anything anymore, so I'm relieved." 

Thanks to this, I don't have to worry about being sliced into pieces... Right? Speaking of which, I 
find the sight of Nagato biting Asahina-san rather hard to visualize. What did she inject? 

"It was yesterday night, when she came with Koizumi-kun to my place..." 

Koizumi, who was in charge of looking after the equipment, was now talking to Haruhi. I would 
have wanted to go last night! He should have asked me to come along! Paying Asahina-san a 
visit was definitely more fun than being tricked into a Sealed Dimension. 


What are you two chatting about? 



Tsuruya-san wrapped her small soft arm around Asahina-san's neck, 


"Mikuru, you're so cute! How I want to keep you as a pet! Kyon-kun, do you two get along 
well?" 

Now really. . . 

The two bozos Taniguchi and Kunikida were now looking at Asahina-san with their mouths wide 
open. Hey, stop looking! What are you going to do if she loses a piece of her costume? As I was 
thinking this, Haruhi yelled, 

"The place has been decided!" 

What place? 

"For outdoor shooting!" 

Is that so? I keep forgetting that we're making a movie. I don't know why, I just wanted to forget 
about it. Also, for some reason, I can't help but feel that this is the filming location for some low- 
cost pop-idol DVD. 

"There's a huge pond near Koizumi-kun's place, so let's begin our filming there today!" 

In almost the blink of an eye, Haruhi quickly picked up a plastic flag that read "filming cast and 
crew" and led the way forward. 

I called over Taniguchi and Kunikida; who were still staring at Asahina-san with their dirty, 
staring eyes, and generously shared the bags and equipment that I carried with them. 


We walked for about thirty minutes before coming to the side of a pond. The location was 
somewhere in the middle of the hill, which was basically right at the center of the residential 
district. While it might be called a pond, it’s a pretty massive body of water. So big that 
migratory birds would probably come flocking over during winter. According to Koizumi, the 
ducks and swallows should be flying in anytime soon. 

The pond was surrounded by a metal fence, which pretty much tells people not to trespass. That's 
common knowledge, isn't it? Maybe it has to do with how a person is brought up. Lately, even 
elementary school kids won't play around here, except for those who are mentally insane. 

"What're you waiting for? Hurry up and climb over!" 



I'd forgotten that Haruhi is, in fact, a seriously insane person; as she placed her foot over the 
fence and waved her hand. Asahina-san placed her hands on her extremely short skirt and 
seemed to become very despairing. Tsuruya-san stood beside and giggled, 

"Huh? What did we come here for? Hey! Is Mikuru going to swim?" 

Asahina-san shook her head very quickly, sighed, and stared at the green pond surface as though 
she'd just seen blood. 

"Don't you think this fence is a bit too tall for us to climb over?" 

Koizumi wasn't talking to me, but to Nagato. You're wasting your time trying to start a proper 
conversation with her. She’ll either give you a simple "yes" or "no" answer, or she’ll begin a 
string of incomprehensible jargon. 


Though Nagato remained silent, she had a peculiar reaction. She placed her finger on the top of 
the fence and slowly pulled it outwards. For some reason, the metallic fence, which was 
supposed to be firmly stuck to the ground, now bent softly like toffee placed under the sun, and 
then it slowly coagulated in its bent form. 

She was as elegant as usual. I frantically turned and looked at the others' reactions, perhaps I was 
worrying too much. 

"Huh? This fence looks quite old." 

Kunikida said as though he knew everything. 

"Just what am I playing? She can't have me play a kappa. . ." 

Taniguchi mumbled as he walked through the opening caused by the bent fence and on towards 
the pond. 

Tsuruya-san followed behind him, holding hands with Asahina-san, who was reluctantly led 
towards the pond where Haruhi was waiting. 

I'm so relieved that the extra trio didn't have that much intelligence. 

Koizumi smiled at me and Nagato, then slid his body through the fence opening, while Nagato, 
the black mage, also walked past me like a phantom. 


Oh well, let's hurry up and get this over with! Before anyone discovers that public property has 
been vandalized, that is. 



Asahina-san and Nagato stood facing each other again, looks like it's yet another battle scene. I 
really wonder whether Haruhi had even seriously written the script. When is Koizumi going to 
come on? Still wearing his school uniform today, Koizumi stood behind me and continued his 
role as the reflector board holder. 

Haruhi placed the director's chair on the dirt and scribbled what might be the dialogue in her 
sketchbook. 

"This scene will show Mikuru being forced into a desperate situation, with her blue eye beams 
having been nullified." 

Haruhi stopped writing with her pen and smiled, looking satisfied. 

"Yes, this'll do. You there, hold this and stand over there." 

And so, Taniguchi was put in charge of holding up the dialogue placards. The two actresses 
began reading the placards held up by an obviously disgruntled Taniguchi: 

"I won't be deterred by this set back! Y-you evil alien Yuki! H-h-hurry up and leave Earth at 
once...! Umm... Sorry..." 

Asahina-san couldn't help but apologize for no reason after reading her lines, Nagato Yuki the 
evil alien magician then said, 

"...Is that so?" 

She nonchalantly nodded her head and read her lines following Haruhi's instructions, 

"You should be the one to disappear from this time period. He is ours. That is how much he is 
worth to us. Though he has not discovered his powers yet, those are very precious powers. We 
will need those powers in order to invade Earth." 

Moving in tandem with Haruhi waving her loudspeaker, Nagato waved her star-shaped wand and 
pointed it towards Asahina-san's face. 

"I-I-I won't let you have your way! Even if it means risking my life." 

"If that is so, then prepare to die." 

"Cut!" Haruhi yelled and stood up, she then ran between the two of them and said, 


"You girls need to create an atmosphere! Yes, the sort of atmosphere like now, but don't stray 
from the script. And Mikuru-chan, come over here." 



The director and female lead abandoned us and turned away. I put down my camera and 
scratched my neck. Just what were they discussing? 

Tsuruya-san could take it no more and began to laugh out loud, 

"What kind of movie is this? Can this even be called a movie? Nyahahaha! This is too funny!" 
Besides you, I guess only Haruhi would find this funny. 

Taniguchi and Kunikida stood aimlessly with a "What the hell were we called here for?" 
expression. Nagato stood by the side, as though she had nothing to do with it. While Koizumi 
stood naturally and looked at the edge of the pond. I took out the tape, which was nearly full, and 
replaced it with a new tape. I had the feeling that I was creating useless trash. 

Tsuruya-san looked at the equipment I was carrying with interest, 

"Hmm, is this what they use to make videos these days? It's full of Mikuru's funny images, right? 
Can I please have a look at them later? I think it'll be pretty funny." 

It's nothing funny, really. Handing out flyers dressed as a bunny girl took only a day, though this 
ridiculously hilarious movie would last until the day before the school festival. We could go 
from skipping classes to skipping school altogether. This would be very bothersome for me, 
since I wouldn't be able to drink any fine tea. Nagato's tea would be tasteless, while Haruhi's tea 
would be bitter due to the laws of physics. Leaving Koizumi's tea aside, if I have to end up 
brewing tea for myself, then I'd rather drink tap water. 

"Sorry to keep you guys waiting!" 

Indeed, we have waited for quite some time. About time you returned, because I don't want to 
ruin the nice natural scenery by the pond anymore. 

"The real climax is about to start, look carefully guys!" 

Haruhi pushed Asahina-san forward. Even if you didn't ask, I would look at her every day with 
my eyes wide open anyway! See? As usual, Asahina-san looks just as cute, pretty and... 

"Huh?" 

The color of one of her eyes has changed, this time it's the right eye. The silver-colored eye 
looked at me apologetically and moved between me and the ground below. 

"Now, Mikuru-chan, fire your amazing Mikuru Beam R and shoot out some incredible stuff or 
whatever, just attack!" 



There was no way I could stop this in time, and even if I could, I would have already been sliced 
into pieces. By the way, this happened all too suddenly, Haruhi giving her terrible command, 
Asahina-san blinking her eyes looking horrified, and... 

Nagato pushed Asahina-san down by the side of pond; the appearance of her black silhouette 
was just too sudden. 

Yesterday's scene was repeated again today, it was like watching a tape recording all over. 

Nagato showed off her amazing instantaneous movement skills. 

In an instant, only her hat remained where she had once stood, and then slowly fluttered down 
towards the ground. The body which was wearing the hat had moved off yards away in just the 
blink of an eye (about 0.2 seconds), and climbed on top of Asahina-san, grabbing her on the 
forehead... 

"Na-Na-Nagato-sa... KYAA!!!" 

With a blank expression, Nagato ignored the pitiful screams of Asahina-san, her short hair waved 
back and forth as she sat on top of Asahina-san. 

"Wait a minute!" Haruhi quickly came to her senses. 

"Yuki! You're a magician! You aren't supposed to be good at close-quarter combat according to 
my script! Mud-wrestling in this place..." 

Haruhi said that, and then shut her mouth. She thought for about three seconds then said, 

"Ah, well, I guess this could do as well. It could be another selling point, right? Kyon! Record all 
of this! This is Yuki's rare moment of glory!" 

I don't think it's any moment of glory at all. She's just reacting out of instinct to counter the threat 
caused by the contact lens. Asahina-san probably understood as well, but she couldn't help but 
scream and shake her legs nonstop as a result of shock. I'm such a sick person. Now’s not the 
time for me to stare at such scenery. 

At this moment, a thudding noise was heard. Besides the two actresses, the others all turned and 
looked behind. 

The sound came from the pond fence opening where Haruhi leapt over and where we walked 
through. The opening created by Nagato now revealed a large hole, the fence was cut into a V- 
shape and fell outwards towards the road, as though it had been hit by an invisible laser. 


I turned my eyes back to the scene of crime, and saw Nagato biting Asahina-san's wrist like an 
anemic vampire. 



I was careless, 


Nagato surprisingly said, as though she had made a mistake, 

"I had originally allowed the laser to disperse without causing harm to humans, but this time the 
beam was composed of hyper-vibration particles..." 

She said all of this in one single breath. Koizumi handed her the hat he picked up on the ground 
and said, 

"Something like optic fiber? But this sort of particle blade is invisible and weightless, right?" 
Nagato received the hat and promptly placed it on her head and said, 

"I sensed a tiny amount of mass, about ten to the power of negative forty-one grams." 

"Even smaller than neutrons?" 

Nagato said nothing and only looked at Asahina-san's eye, the waitress's right eye was still silver 
in color. 

"Umm..." 

Asahina-san rubbed her bitten wrist and asked in a frightened voice, 

"What did you just inject into my body...?" 

The tip of the pointed hat tilted five centimeters forward. For me, that's a sign of Nagato looking 
troubled. Maybe she was thinking of how to convey this properly. As expected, Nagato then 
said, 

"By alternating the dimensional vibration periods, a gravitational field can then be created on the 
surface of the object." 

Looks like she's trying very hard to explain this difficult to understand fact. While I can 
understand that she has probably nullified the invisible killer beams, what I can't understand is 
how the other two seem to be able to get what she had just said. Koizumi said, "I see, so the 
tremors are caused by gravity?" He was asking questions that didn't seem to be relevant at all. 
Nagato probably thought so as well, since she remained silent. 

Koizumi shrugged his shoulders as though it was his trademark gesture, 

"But we really were careless, I guess I should take partial responsibility as well. I always thought 
that eyes could only fire laser beams. Could it really fire anything as Suzumiya-san has 



described, as long as it's out of this world? It sure is impossible to catch up with Suzumiya-san's 
way of thinking, I'm amazed." 


There's no way we could catch up, she has run far ahead of the whole human race by three whole 
rounds. I could even feel her coming back behind me now, though when I look carefully, it's as 
though she's running in the same circle, giving one the illusion that she hasn't run forward at all, 
which is exactly what she is good at. And that's not all, only those of us who were forced to run 
on this circular track with her could understand this feeling. 

The reason why Haruhi runs so fast is that she doesn't care whether the track is an S-shaped track 
or a crisscrossed three-dimensional track, she just would have charged forward without thinking. 
Not to mention, she's fitted with a compressed engine, meaning that she could go on forever. She 
can quickly make up rules that are just impossible to follow, no matter how much one wants to, 
and she, herself, doesn't realize that this isn't a real race. She is just simply beyond control. 

"It's not too bad," Koizumi said, "We'll let the local authorities take the blame for neglecting to 
maintain the quality of the fence, I'm sure people will buy this story. What's important is that no 
one was hurt. " 

I took a peek at the pale face hiding under the wide-rimmed hat. Just a moment ago I saw a huge 
gash on Nagato's palm as though she had just grabbed a sickle with her bare hands. How I'd like 
to show this to the troublemaker, though that gash has now been healed as though it had never 
existed. 

I looked at the second group standing not far from us. Haruhi and the three extras were now 
looking at the video on the camera, and then they screamed... sorry, it was only Tsuruya-san that 
screamed. 

"What should we do? I have a feeling something terrible will happen if we keep on filming." 

"But we can't just stop here. If we refuse to comply, what do you think Suzumiya-san would 
do?" 

"She'd go ballistic." 

"I think so as well. Even if she didn't go ballistic herself, I'm sure the 'Avatars' would in the 
Sealed Dimension." 

Stop reminding me of that horrible place again. I don't want to go there again, and I don't want to 
do that ever again. 

"Perhaps Suzumiya-san is happy with how things are now. She's making her own movie using 
her own imagination, and her every move is like that of a god. You should know as well, she's 
very frustrated at how reality doesn't conform to her way of thinking. Though she doesn't show it 
on the outside, since she isn't aware of it herself, the end result is the same. However, in the 



movie world, the story moves according to her wishes, so anything is possible. Suzumiya-san is 
trying to create another world using movies as a medium." 

As expected from a self-centered person, unless she has a certain amount of money and power, 
it's near impossible to have everything go her way. She might as well become a politician. 

As I switched through various frowning faces, Koizumi kept smiling and continued, 

"Of course, Suzumiya-san is not aware of all of this. Since the beginning she has been creating 
this fictional world, which shows how much passion she has with this movie. I think she may be 
a bit too passionate, and she has unwittingly affected the real world as a result." 

As with dice having only negative points, no matter how much you throw, you'll still lose in the 
end. The longer this movie goes on, the more Haruhi will go out of control, but it’s a worse idea 
to have her give up on this project, so I'll pick the lesser of two evils. 

"If I have no choice but to throw the dice, then I would choose to go on throwing." 

And why is that? 

"Because I'm tired of destroying 'Avatars' already... Just kidding... Sorry about that. Anyway, 
compared to allowing the world to be rebuilt all over, our chances of survival would be higher if 
we allow some minor changes to occur to this world. " 

You mean a world where Asahina-san would become someone like Wonder Woman? 

"This time, the changes are small in scale compared with the appearance of 'Avatars'. And 
Nagato-san would place remedy measures for us, so it's not that much of a problem, right? Don't 
you think that solving these paranormal events one at a time is a better alternative than trying to 
save the world from being recreated from scratch?" 

It's still problematic no matter which way you look at it. How about ambushing Haruhi from 
behind and knocking her unconscious until the school festival? 

"That would be too unimaginable. If you're willing to take responsibility for that, then I won't 
stop you." 

"Holding the fate of the world alone would be too heavy for my shoulders," 

I replied and looked at Asahina-san, who was picking the dirt off her waitress uniform with her 
fingers. Seems like she's pretty much given up, but when she noticed I was looking at her, she 
said urgently, 


Oh, please don't worry about me, I'm all right. I'll think of a way to endure this... 



She's just too adorable, though she doesn't look well at all. She probably has to face the prospect 
of getting bitten by Nagato every time something happens. Though the teeth-marks would 
disappear after a while, it's just uncomfortable getting bitten by her because, if Nagato were to 
carry a sickle instead of a magic wand in that costume, then she would be like the thirteenth 
Tarot card - Death. Either that, or she would be an ageless space vampire. Just being bitten by 
someone in that costume is enough to send one's soul to the other world. 

Even though Asahina-san was dragged into all this against her will, for a time traveler from the 
future, she sure lacks a sense of danger. Or maybe it's because she never really told me what she 
really thought about this, since her world is full of classified restrictions. 

Forget it. I'm sure she'll tell me eventually. How I hope we’ll be in a narrow space together when 
she does that. 


It was finally time for Taniguchi and Kunikida, as well as Tsuruya-san to make their first 
appearance. 

Haruhi announced the roles they would be playing in the movie; it was long ago decided the 
three of them would be small fry characters. They would be playing "humans who have been 
turned into mindless zombies by the evil alien magician". 

"In other words," Haruhi said with a disquieting smile, "as Mikuru represents the side of justice, 
there's no way she would lay a finger on innocent civilians, and Yuki has taken advantage of that 
weakness. She has controlled these humans using hypnosis, and Mikuru will end up getting 
badly beaten, as she is unable to strike back at the humans that attack her. " 

I thought to myself, Just how much more do you want to torture Asahina-san? Haruhi then said, 

“You guys will start by pushing Mikuru into the pond." 

"EH!?" 

Only Asahina-san yelled in terror, while Tsuruya-san giggled uncontrollably. Taniguchi and 
Kunikida exchanged glances with each other, then looked at Asahina-san with very troubled 
expressions. 

"Hey," 

Taniguchi asked with a half- smiling face, 



"Push her into the pond? The weather may be warm, but it's autumn already! As for the water 
quality, no matter how you look at it, it just doesn't look clean." 

"Su-Su-Suzumiya-san, we should at least find a warm indoor pool or something..." 

Asahina-san also protested with all her strength, her eyes were close to tears. Even Kunikida 
sided with Asahina-san. 

"She's right! What'll happen if this is a bottomless swamp? She won't be able to float back up 
once she falls in. And look, there're a lot of black bass swimming around in there." 

Stop saying stuff that'll make Asahina-san faint! But from past experience, the more one resists, 
the more stubborn Haruhi would get. She gave a very Haruhi-like response, 

"Silence! Listen up! Sacrifices need to be made for the sake of realism. I had originally wanted 
to shoot this scene with the Loch Ness Monster! But we lack the time and budget to do that. It is 
our mission as humans to create the best stuff under limited time and resources, so we have no 
choice but to use this pond instead." 

What sort of logic is that!? Do you intend to have Asahina-san drown anyway? Can't you 
substitute this with other backgrounds? 

As I was considering whether to join the argument as well, someone patted me on the shoulder 
from behind. I turned and saw Koizumi smile and shake his head quietly. I knew. I knew if 
Haruhi didn't have her way, something queer might happen. If Asahina-san ends up spitting out 
plasma, the Self-Defense Lorce might have to consider her as a hostile being. 

"I-I-I'll do it!" 

Asahina-san announced with a very mournful expression, she was beyond despair now. A poor 
girl has decided to sacrifice herself for world peace. Things have developed to a stage where it is 
no longer possible to stop. But this is probably the most climatic moment of the movie, right? I'd 
better record this on film. 

Haruhi was absolutely delighted, 

"Well done, Mikuru-chan! You look awesome right now! That's the SOS Brigade member that 
I've chosen! How you've grown!" 

I don't think this has anything to do with growing up, but the result of learning from past 
experience. 

"Now then, you two over there hold Mikuru-chan's arms, Tsuruya-san, you grab her legs. 

Prepare yourselves, once I make the command, toss her into the pond with all your might." 


The following scene ensued under Haruhi's direction. 



The three minions start by standing in a neat row in front of Nagato, when the black mage waved 
her wand, they would lower their heads as though making a prayer in a Shinto shrine. Nagato 
waved her wand like a priest waving away bad spirits with a blank expression, in a way, she 
looked just like a shrine maiden. 

Then, after receiving Nagato's psychic waves, the three minions started to move stiffly towards 
Asahina-san as though they were zombies seeking living flesh. 

"I'm sorry, Mikuru, I don't want to do this. But I can't control myself, I'm really sorry." 

Tsuruya-san said looking very happy as she walked towards the waitress. Taniguchi, who would 
cower in the event of an emergency, had no idea what to say, while Kunikida scratched his head 
as he walked towards Asahina-san, who was looking increasingly pale. 

"You two idiots over there! Be serious!" 

You 're the idiot around here! I took back what I was about to say and continued to roll the 
camera. Asahina-san slowly backed up towards the edge of the pond looking terrified. 

"Prepare to die — ." 

Tsuruya-san happily pushed Asahina-san down and grabbed the sides of her long fleshy legs. 
How should I put this? This sight looks way too dangerous. 

"Kyaa..." 

Asahina-san looked really scared, as Taniguchi and Kunikida grabbed hold of her arms. 

"W... wait a moment, I still... I-Is this necessary?" 

Ignoring Asahina-san's cries, Haruhi nodded her head and said, 

"This is for making the best scene, it's all for art!" 

Sounds nice, but how does this crappy movie have anything to do with art!? 

Haruhi gave her command, 

"Ready! NOW!" 

Splash! Water foams splashed out from the surface, disturbing the aquatic life living in the pond. 
"Ah... Help... Wah..." 

This drowning act is just too realistic, Asahina-san. No, wait... How come it looks as though 
she's really drowning? 



My legs... Can't reach... Kya...! 


It was fortunate that this isn't the Amazon River, or she would be an ideal target for piranhas, 
shaking the surface of the water so frantically like that. I wonder if black bass attack humans? I 
thought as I looked through the camera lens. It was now I realized it wasn't just Asahina-san 
splashing the water. 

"Argh! I've swallowed water!" 

Taniguchi was also drowning. He probably tossed Asahina-san too strongly and fell into the 
pond himself as well. I decided to ignore this idiot. 

"What's that moron doing?" 

Haruhi came to the same conclusion as I had. Ignoring the moron, she pointed the loudspeaker 
towards Koizumi. 

"Koizumi-kun, it's your turn to appear! Go and save Mikuru!" 

The male lead, who was responsible for the lighting since the beginning, gave an elegant smile 
and handed the reflector board over to Nagato. He then walked to the side of the pond and stuck 
out his hand. 

"Grab my hand. Calm down, make sure you don't pull me down as well." 

Like a victim of a shipwreck, Asahina-san grabbed tightly onto Koizumi's arm like a piece of 
wooden plank. Koizumi casually pulled the completely soaked battle waitress up from the water. 
He then supported her by holding tight onto her. Hey! You're holding her too closely! 

"Are you okay?" 

"...Uuuu... Cold..." 

As a result of being soaked wet by water, the tight waitress uniform was now even more tightly 
wrapped around Asahina-san's body. If I were a member of the Motion Picture Association, I 
wouldn't hesitate to give this movie a R-15 rating. To be honest, I have a feeling we might get 
arrested for this. 

"Yes, perfect." 

Haruhi slapped the loudspeaker loudly and gave a sigh of satisfaction. Not paying any attention 
to Taniguchi, who was still splashing the water, I pushed down the "stop" button on the camera. 



We now had enough junk to open a stall, yet there was not a single towel to be found. Just what's 
going on? 

Asahina-san let Tsuruya-san wipe her face with a handkerchief as she kept her eyes shut. I held 
my breath as I stood by Haruhi, who was studying the taped footage with a serious look. 

"Hmm, not bad." 

After watching Asahina-san fall into the water three times, Haruhi nodded and continued, 

"Not a bad scene for the male and female protagonist to meet for the first time. Itsuki and Mikuru 
have perfectly conveyed that shy, clumsy feeling. Excellent." 

Oh really? Koizumi looked ordinary to me in that scene. 

"We'll go to the next scene, where after rescuing Mikuru, Itsuki decides to hide her in his house. 
The next scene will start there." 

Wouldn't that disrupt the continuity of the story? Where did Nagato run off to after controlling 
Taniguchi and the others? What about the zombies then? How were they beaten off? Even 
though they're just minions, if their whereabouts aren't properly accounted for, the audience 
won't buy the story. 

"You sure are annoying! People are going to guess what happened anyway even if that scene 
wasn't filmed! We can just skip the unimportant bits!" 

Damn it! You mean all this time you just wanted to film Asahina-san being thrown into the 
water!? 

As I was about to respond, Tsuruya-san raised her hand and said, 

"Um, Mikuru might catch a cold, so can I bring her to my place so she can get changed? My 
house is just nearby." 

"That's excellent!" Haruhi said to Tsuruya-san with glittering eyes, 

"Can I borrow Tsuruya-san's room? I'd like to film a scene where Itsuki and Mikuru get intimate 
together. This is going too smoothly! This movie is going to be a great success!" 

For someone who prefers things to be convenient, things have been going smoothly for Haruhi. 
Yet I can't cast away a doubt in my mind - 1 suspect Tsuruya-san knew Haruhi had wanted to 
film such a scene before making that suggestion. As Haruhi had cast Tsuruya-san as a minion, I 
believe Tsuruya-san should be a normal person like us, but... 


What about us? 



Kunikida asked. Taniguchi stood aside trembling while wrapping himself with his wet jacket. 
"You can go home now." 

Haruhi announced coldly. 

"Good job. See ya, we'll probably not need you again." 

And so, the names and existence of these two classmates disappeared from Haruhi's 
consciousness. Without looking at the stunned Kunikida and Taniguchi, who shook his wet hair 
like a dog, Haruhi appointed Tsuruya-san as our guide and walked off in large strides. You two 
sure are lucky, no longer needing to endure any more disasters. For Haruhi, you're probably as 
useful as a used BB bullet. You can't get any more fortunate than that. 

For some reason, Tsuruya-san yelled happily, 

"All right — ! Everybody, this way!" 

She went to the front of the entourage and waved a flag. 


Haruhi's unruly behavior didn't begin yesterday. I believe she was born that way. In fact, in five 
hundred years, they'll probably have legends about Haruhi proclaiming to be the only one 
honored by Heaven and Earth the moment she was born, but that's another story. 

I don't know when it began, but Tsuruya-san seems to get along very well with Haruhi, as they 
walk together in front of the group, singing the chorus of Bryan Adams' "18 Till I Die". Walking 
behind them, I feel very ashamed for knowing them. 

Nagato, the black mage, trailed silently behind them, followed by Koizumi, the lighting 
coordinator as well as male lead. Neither seems too concerned. You two should learn from 
Asahina-san, hanging down her shoulders and lowering her head slightly. And at least help me 
carry some of the equipment, we've been climbing the slope all this time and I'm beginning to 
understand the feeling of those racing horses trained to run uphill. 

"And we've arrived! This is my home!" 

Tsuruya-san shouted and stopped outside a residence. Her voice is impressive, even her house 
was impressive. Sorry, I meant extravagant. I couldn't see the whole house from the entrance, so 
I had no idea how big it was, but it was enough for me to call this house big. There was hardly 
any other houses to be seen from the main entrance, which means it was quite a distance from 
the main entrance to the nearest neighboring house. I took a look around and noticed that the 



estate was surrounded by a huge wall, like those samurai-class mansions. Just what sort of 
criminal activities was she involved in order to live in such a big house? 


"Come on in!" 

Haruhi and Nagato didn't seem to have any concept of common manners, as they stepped into the 
house as though it were their own. Asahina-san seems to have come here before, as she doesn't 
look at all awed, while being pushed inwards by Tsuruya-san. 

"Such a nostalgic looking house. Such an incredibly well built structure. So this is what they call 
buildings with a sense of architecture? Quite a contemporary building." 

Koizumi said in an exclamatory tone, without carrying any expression on his face. Are you a 
property salesman? 

We walked through a vast space large enough to play baseball in, and then came to the entrance 
hall. After taking Asahina-san to the bathroom, Tsuruya-san then led us to her room. 

My room was like a bed for a kitty cat compared with this room. We were led into a wide 
Japanese -style bedroom. The room was so wide I didn't know where to sit, but it seemed I was 
the only one troubled by that. Nagato, Koizumi and even Haruhi didn't seem to look concerned. 

"Such a great room. We could even film an outdoor shoot in here. Right, this will be set as 
Koizumi-kun's room then. We'll film a scene of Koizumi-kun and Mikuru-chan getting intimate 
here." 

Haruhi sat on the cushion and examined the room through her fingers, which were crossed into a 
rectangle. The layout of Tsuruya-san's room was simple, a simple Japanese-style bedroom with 
just a tatami and a stove. 

I followed Nagato's example and sat with my knees bent, but I couldn't take it after three 
minutes, and had to release my legs. Haruhi sat with her legs crossed since the beginning and 
whispered into Tsuruya-san's ear. 

"Hee hee! Ah, now that'll be fun! Hold on!" 

Tsuruya-san left the room carrying a very loud and pleasant laugh. 

I kept thinking, Is Tsuruya-san really a normal person? To be able to get along happily with 
Haruhi, one must either be extremely queer or literally from out of this world. But it's also 
possible that they just struck chords with each other. 

After waiting for a few minutes, Tsuruya-san returned. The present she brought along was 
Asahina-san, and it's not just a normal Asahina-san, but an Asahina-san who had just taken a 
bath. She was wearing what was possibly Tsuruya-san's loose T-shirt. How should I say this? 

She was "only" wearing the T-shirt. 



"Ah... S-Sorry to have kept everyone waiting..." 

Asahina-san said, her hair still looked wet while her skin was bright red as she shyly hid behind 
Tsuruya-san when entering the room, and then squirmed tightly as she sat down. The shirt and 
the sleeves were just too long for Asahina-san, instead of calling it a T-shirt, a one-piece dress 
would be a better description. This only served to enhance her charm. The contact lens in her 
right eye, which she forgot to remove, continued to glow in a silver color, causing me to be 
alarmed for a while. Though it seems it would no longer be able to fire any beams or rays, so I 
was relieved. I really wanted to place Nagato, who was still wearing her pointed-hat and 
kneeling, into a Shinto temple and worship her. 

"Help yourselves." 

Tsuruya-san placed a tray on the tatami, which contained some glasses filled with an orange 
liquid. Asahina-san gulped half of the glass that Tsuruya-san handed to her. She probably lost 
quite a lot of water, as she had worked the hardest today. 

I gratefully enjoyed my fruit juice, whereas Haruhi finished hers in one gulp, and while spinning 
the ice inside the glass, said, 

"Well, since we have the opportunity, let's do the filming in this room!" 

Without any rest, filming began at once starting with the following. 

Koizumi carried Asahina-san, who pretended to be asleep, into the room. For some reason, even 
the futon was prepared. Koizumi gently laid Asahina-san down and watched her face intently. 

Asahina-san's face was flushed bright red as her eyelids trembled incessantly. Carefully and 
slowly Koizumi placed a blanket over a defenseless Asahina-san, then sat by her side crossing 
his arms. 

"Um..." Asahina-san murmured in her sleep, Koizumi began to smile as he watched her the 
whole time. 

Nagato, who probably didn't need to appear, was sitting behind me and Tsuruya-san and was still 
sipping her juice with a straw. Through the viewing panel, I slowly enlarged the image of 
Asahina-san's sleeping face. As Haruhi didn't make any directions, I was free to indulge in my 
own fantasies for now. Though Haruhi constantly gave commands to the two actors out there. 

"Mikuru-chan, get up slowly, and slowly recite what I just told you." 

"...Um." 

Asahina-san gradually opened her eyes, and looked at Koizumi with eyes that seemed oddly 


warm. 



You've awakened?" Koizumi said. 


"Yes... Where am I...?" 

"This is my house." 

Struggling to move her upper body, Asahina-san's face looked conspicuously hot as her gaze 
wandered around the air. She looked notably seductive; was that part of her acting? 

"Th... Thank you..." 

Haruhi quickly ordered, 

"Yes, that's it! Put your faces closer to each other! Mikuru-chan, close your eyes. Koizumi-kun, 
place your hands on Mikuru-chan's shoulders. It's fine, just push her down and kiss her!" 

Asahina-san had her mouth half-open looking perplexed, while Koizumi followed Haruhi's 
instructions and placed his hands on Asahina-san's shoulders. My patience was already at its 
limit, 

"Hold it! The plot's way too simplified. Why must we have this scene? What on earth is this?" 

"A scene where boy meets girl! A romantic scene! This scene is necessary for a movie about 
time-travel. " 

Are you an idiot? Do you think this is some prime time two-hour drama shown every week? You 
too, Koizumi, what are you working so hard for? If this scene ever gets shown, your shoe locker 
will be filled with hundreds of letters cursing you the next day, use your brain for a bit. 

"Hee hee, Mikuru-chan's acting... funny..." 

It's not funny at all... I had wanted to say, but something was definitely wrong with Asahina-san. 
She's been looking so dreamy ever since the filming had begun. Her eyes looked teary, while her 
cheeks were red, and she didn't even resist when Koizumi grabbed her by the shoulders. It wasn't 
funny at all. 

"Umm... Koizumi-kun, my head feels heavy..." 

Asahina-san mumbled and trembled at the same time. I began to suspect whether she'd been 
drugged. I naturally turned my gaze to her empty glass, and found Tsuruya-san giggling and said, 

"Sorry about that. I added a bit of Tequila into Mikuru's juice. I was told that a bit of alcohol 
enhances the realism in acting." 

So this was Haruhi's plan all along? I was beyond stunned, and was close to going ballistic. How 
could you sneak such a thing into her drink? 



"Does it really matter? Mikuru-chan looks really sexy right now. This makes things even more 
exciting." Haruhi said. 

This no longer has anything to do with anyone's acting. Asahina-san was already shaking to and 
fro and looking dizzy. Her face was bright red under her closed eyes. Of course it was good that 
she looked sexy, but I didn't like the sight of her leaning onto Koizumi like that. 

"Koizumi-kun, don't worry, just go ahead and kiss her. On the lips, of course!" 

You can't do that! How could you do this to someone that's semi-conscious? 

"KOIZUMI STOP!" 

Koizumi went into deep thought, thinking whether to listen to the director or cameraman. I'm 
seriously going to beat you up, you bastard! At any rate, I put down the camera, since I refuse to 
shoot this scene, and I won't be forced into doing it either. 

"Director, this burden is too heavy for me. Besides, Asahina-san seems to have reached her 
limit." 

"...I'm fine." 

Asahina-san said, but she didn't look fine at all. 

"Really, you're hopeless." 

Haruhi scowled and walked towards the drunken girl, 

"Huh? You're still wearing that contact lens? You should take it off for now!" 

She smacked the back of Asahina-san's head hardly. 

"O... OUCH!" Asahina-san shook her head and yelled. 

"Mikuru-chan, this won't do! When your head gets smacked, you should let your contact lens fly 
out at once. Let's practice again." 

Smack! 

"It hurts!" 

Smack! 


...KYAA!" Asahina-san shut her eyes tightly. 



"STOP IT, YOU IDIOT!" I quickly grabbed Haruhi's hand and stopped her. "What kind of 
practice is this? This isn't a circus! What's so fun about this?" 


"What now? Don't try to stop me. I planned this long ago!" 

"Nobody planned this with you! It isn't funny! This is ridiculous! Asahina-san isn't your toy!" 
"Well I've decided, Mikuru-chan is my toy!" 

After hearing this, I could feel blood charging up to my brain, I even thought my vision was 
going red. I was infuriated, suddenly my impulse overrode my reasoning, and I made a 
subconscious reflex reaction. 

Someone grabbed my wrist. I noticed Koizumi had closed his eyes and was slowly shaking his 
head. When I saw Koizumi holding my hand, I realized I had clutched my right fist and was 
about to strike at Haruhi. 

"What the...?" 

Haruhi's eyes flashed brightly like a constellation of stars as she stared coldly at me, 

"If you have a problem, then say it! All you need to do is just follow my orders anyway! I'm the 
commander and director... In any case, I won't allow you to stand up against me!" 

My eyes went red again. You stupid girl! Koizumi let go of me! I don't care if it's an animal or a 
person, but anyone who won't learn deserves to be taught a lesson, even if it means using my 
fists. Otherwise she'll continue to repel people as though she has spikes on her back, hurting 
everyone for her whole life. 





I don't care if it's an animal or a person, but anyone who won't learn deserves to be taught a lesson, even 
if it means using my fists. 

"No... stop!" 

Asahina-san quickly ran over, and said, nearly incomprehensibly, 

"You can't! You mustn't fight..." 

Standing between me and Haruhi, Asahina-san slumped to the ground with her face all red. She 
grabbed Haruhi's knees and said, 

"Um... Please get along well with each other... or... we'll be..." 

Asahina-san said ambiguously, then slumped wearily to the ground closing her eyes, and then 
began to snore quietly as she fell asleep. 


As I walked down the slope with Koizumi, we came across the pond where we were filming just 
a little while ago. 

As the female lead had fallen unconscious, filming had to be stopped. Koizumi, Nagato and I 
decided to let Tsuruya-san take care of the sleeping Asahina-san while we would excuse 
ourselves. For some reason, Haruhi said she wanted to stay behind, and snatched the camera 
from my hand and turned around quickly. I remained silent as well and quickly carried the large 
amount of equipment out as Tsuruya-san led us to the door. 

"I'm sorry, Kyon-kun," 

Tsuruya-san said apologetically, she then smiled again, 

"I got too carried away as well! Don't worry about Mikuru, I'll send her home later, or she could 
stay here for the night." 

Nagato walked away the moment she stepped out of the door, as if she had no comment at all. 
Nagato's probably like that all the time, she never has any comment for anything. 

We now walked shoulder to shoulder on the way home. After about five minutes of silence, 
Koizumi finally spoke, 

"I've always thought you were a calm person." 


I had thought so as well. 



"Our world has already started to become erratic. I must ask you to please stop doing things that 
could cause a Sealed Dimension to appear." 

That's not up to me to deal with! Isn't that what your 'Organization' has been created for? You 
guys should be doing something! 

"Regarding the incident just now, Suzumiya-san seems to have subconsciously controlled 
herself, and there has not been any sight of a Sealed Dimension being created. This is just my 
request, but please make up with her tomorrow." 

What I do is my own business. This isn't something that can be settled by me agreeing to do what 
you say. 

"What we should consider now is how to deal with the parts of the reality that she has affected." 

Koizumi was obviously trying to change the subject. I decided to go along, 

"There's no point considering, I really don't care about what things have become." 

"It's very simple. Every time Suzumiya-san thinks up something, reality changes as well. Hasn't 
it always been like that?" 

Images of blue giants creating havoc in a gray world appeared in my mind. 

"When Suzumiya-san gives an opinion on something, we should act upon it. Our mission should 
be to find out the underlying motivation." 

I also recalled some glowing red spheres. Koizumi walked slowly while saying confidently, 

"We are basically the sedatives for Suzumiya-san's mental state, we're also her mental 
stabilizers." 

"That's... your business, right?" 

"It is yours as well." 

The mysterious ex-transfer student still gave me his never-ending smile, 

"Our responsibility lies within the Sealed Dimension, while yours lies in the outside world, 
because you are the only one who can keep Suzumiya-san's mental state stable and prevent the 
appearance of Sealed Dimensions. Thanks to you, for the past six months, I have been able to 
work less. Perhaps I should thank you properly." 

"Don't mention it." 


Really? That would save me a lot of talking. 



Coming out of the slope and into the main road, Koizumi once again broke his silence, 


"Ah yes, I'd like you to come with me to a place." 

"What if I don't want to?" 

"It won't take long. Besides, you don't have to do anything there. Of course, you won't be invited 
into a Sealed Dimension again." 

Koizumi suddenly raised his hand, and a familiar black taxi stopped in front of us. 

"Now let us continue," 

Koizumi said as he leaned against the back seat of the taxi, while I looked at the back of the 
driver's head. 

"Right now it has become a regular routine for us to be involved with Suzumiya-san and you. 
Along with the other brigade members, it has become customary for us to tackle Suzumiya-san's 
out of control behavior by physically countering them." 

"What a bother." 

"Maybe! But I don't know how long this routine can last, since repeating the same things over 
and over again is one of the things Suzumiya-san hates most." 

She seems to enjoy herself pretty much right now. Koizumi gave a smile that lacked any sense of 
urgency and said, 

"We need to find a way to contain Suzumiya-san's out of control behavior within the confines of 
the movie." 

To become a baseball player, one needs to start by swinging a bat and practice running; to 
become a master Go or Shougi player, one needs to start by memorizing the Go and Shougi 
rules; to get first place in the term-end exams, one would have a chance if they spent the whole 
night studying the reference books. In other words, different people may use different methods to 
succeed, but it all depends on effort. But, just how much effort is needed in order to remove the 
destructive factors within Haruhi's brain? 

If I tried to stop her, she would become upset, and those hateful gray worlds might start 
reproducing like mad; but if I let her have her way all the time, her fantasies might just come 
true. 

Both methods were very extreme no matter how you look at it, couldn't she have a more 
moderate attitude to things? Geez. . . She wouldn't be named Suzumiya Haruhi if she did things in 
moderation. 



Outside the car, the scenery became greener as the taxi drove onto a meandering hill road. I 
understood at once. This was the hill that we passed by while on the bus yesterday. 

A while later, the taxi stopped by the empty parking lot, which was mainly used by people 
visiting the shrine. It was here, yesterday, that Haruhi had committed the atrocity of shooting the 
shrine priest and the pigeons with her gun. It was that shrine again. Now that's strange. Today's 
Sunday. . . There should be more people around. 

Getting out of the taxi first, Koizumi said, 

"Do you still remember what Suzumiya-san said yesterday?" 

How am I supposed to remember every single piece of nonsense that she’s spouted out? 

"You'll remember when we get there, to the inside of the shrine, that is." Koizumi then added, 

"It's been like this since this morning." 

We climbed up the stone-paved stairs. We have climbed these stairs before, yesterday. At the end 
of the stairs would be a torii (Shrine Gateway), and then a stone path leading to the shrine itself. 
On the path would be lots of pigeons... 

"..."I was speechless. 

There were indeed pigeons all over the path, birds that pecked at the ground while moving 
around like a mobile carpet, but I wasn't sure if these pigeons were the same as the ones from 
yesterday. 

That’s because every pigeon's feathers had become pure white in color... 

"...Did someone dye their feathers?" 

...Overnight. 

"These white feathers are genuinely grown from their bodies. They were not dyed, and they were 
not caused by the colors running off either." 

Maybe someone brought a lot of white pigeons and used them to replace the pigeons from 
yesterday? 

"How is this possible? Who would do such a thing?" 

I was only trying to guess, yet I knew what the answer was, but I really didn't want to say it. 
Yesterday Haruhi had said, 


If possible, I'd prefer all the pigeons to be white, but I guess I can 't be picky now. 



Seems like she was already being picky! 

"Exactly. This is likely created by Suzumiya-san subconsciously. It was fortunate enough that 
there was a margin of error of just one day before the effects became apparent." 

Maybe they thought we were going to feed them? The swarming pigeons gathered under our 
feet. Besides us, there were no other visitors. 

"Suzumiya-san's out of control behavior is slowly seeping out from the making of the movie, 
into reality." 

Wasn't it enough making Asahina-san fire lasers and beams from her eye? 

"Why can't we just shoot Haruhi with a tranquilizer dart and let her sleep till the end of the 
school festival?" 

Koizumi responded to my suggestion with an ironic smile, 

"It's a possible solution, but are you willing to take responsibility of what happens after she has 
woken up?" 

"No thanks." 

That certainly wasn't included in my job description. Koizumi shrugged his shoulders and said, 
"So what should we do?" 

"Isn't she a god? You worshippers ought to do something!" 

Koizumi intentionally gave a surprised look, 

"You say Suzumiya-san is a god? Who told you that?" 

"You of course!" 

"Oh, did I?" 

I feel like beating the crap out of this guy. 

Koizumi dodged this with his usual response, "Just kidding," and then said, 

"In fact, I don't think there's a problem classifying Suzumiya-san as 'God.' Half of the 
'Organization' has indeed treated her as a 'God.' Of course, there are doubters. Personally, I, 
myself, am skeptical as well. Because I believe that if she were a god, then it would not be 
possible for her to live in this world without being self-aware. Generally speaking, a creator 



should be someone watching over us from someplace afar, making miracles randomly, while 
calmly observing us panic over them." 

I knelt down, picked up a feather dropped by one of the pigeons, and spun it with my finger 
while remaining kneeling down. The pigeons started to rumble again, sorry guys, I didn't bring 
any breadcrumbs with me today. 

"This is what I think," 

Koizumi continued to ramble on, 

"Someone granted Suzumiya-san omnipotent god-like powers, yet they did not allow her to 
become aware of it. If there were a God, then Suzumiya-san would be the person chosen by God. 
But no matter how you look at it, she's just a normal person." 

I didn't have to think a lot on whether that girl's a normal person or not. But why did Haruhi have 
such omnipotent power that she's unaware of? Enough power to turn pigeon feathers white. 

Why? Who was behind this? 

"Well, I also don't know, do you?" 

He's seriously asking for a beating. 

"I'm sorry," Koizumi said and then continued, 

"Suzumiya-san is a creator as well as a destroyer. The reality right now may be a failed product 
of creation, and perhaps Suzumiya-san was given the mission to amend this flawed world." 

Go on! 

"If that's the case, then we're the ones at fault. Suzumiya-san would be the normal one, while we 
would become enemies of this world by getting in her way. That's not all. Besides Suzumiya-san, 
the whole human race would be at fault." 

Yep, now that'd be a major problem. 

"The problem lies with us who are at fault. When the world is fully amended, will we still be a 
part of that world? Or will we be considered as defects and get eliminated? This is something 
that no one can predict." 

If you can't predict, then quit bullshitting as if you know everything. 

"Yet from a certain perspective, so far, she has been unable to create a perfect world, and that is 
a fact. This is because her consciousness is leaning towards that of creation. Suzumiya-san is a 
very positive person, but what would happen if she suddenly became negative?" 



This doesn't seem like the time to remain silent, so I gave up, 


"What's going to happen?" 

"I don't know. But no matter what, destroying is always easier than creating. 'If I don't believe in 
this, then let it disappear!' If Suzumiya-san held such an attitude, then all would be reduced to 
naught, and everything would be eliminated. For example, if a formidable enemy were to appear 
before us, as long as Suzumiya-san denies their existence, then that is enough to destroy them. 

Be it magic or highly advanced technology, she would be able do away with them very easily." 

But Haruhi hasn't denied everything. Is it because she still has hope in something? 

"That is what we are concerned about." 

Koizumi continued without looking concerned at all, 

"I think there's no way we could ever find out whether Suzumiya-san is God or a similar 
omnipotent being, but there's one thing we can be sure of. If she continues to freely use her 
powers and it leads to the world being changed, it's possible no one would even realize that the 
world had changed. The scary thing is, even Suzumiya-san doesn't realize when the world has 
been altered." 

"Why's that?" 

"Because Suzumiya-san is a part of this world, proof that she isn't the creator of this world. If she 
is a God who has created this world, she should be in a place outside of this world, yet here she 
is living with us in this world. We can only conclude that she can only alter the world to a certain 
extent, and this is unnatural and very strange." 

"You look even stranger to me." 

Ignoring my comment, Koizumi continued, 

"I still prefer this world that I'm living in now. There may be all sorts of conflicts between 
various societies, but it's only a matter of time before humans get these problems sorted out. The 
problem lies with theories like geocentrism. We need to make sure that Suzumiya-san doesn't 
begin to believe in these ideas. Weren't you able to come out of that Sealed Dimension with 
these preferences as well?" 

How should I say this? I’ve forgotten about that, I decided to seal away the memories that I no 
longer wish to remember. 

A smile formed on Koizumi's mouth; it looked like a self-deprecating smile. 

"I'm sorry. I've been talking too much about this unconstructive stuff as though I'm a defender of 
this world's justice. Please do accept my apologies." 



(Chapter 4 End) 


Chapter 5 

Chapter 5 


It was Monday morning. . . A week to go before the school festival starts, and yet the school was 
still surrounded by a relaxed atmosphere. Does this school even plan to hold a school festival at 
all? Shouldn't it be a bit livelier? Since the atmosphere is just too laid back, even I’m feeling 
unmotivated. And there were things that would make me become even more unmotivated as I 
approached the classroom. 

Koizumi was waiting outside my classroom. You've already said so much yesterday. You still 
have more? 

"Class 1-9 has already begun rehearsals for their play. Of course, I was merely walking by." 

Your girly face was the last thing I wanted to see this early in the morning. 

"What is it now? Don't tell me, that stupid dimension has finally appeared?" 

"No, yesterday, it didn’t appear at all. It seems Suzumiya-san was so busy being depressed that 
she didn't have the time to be frustrated." 

Why? 

"You should know... Since you don't seem to understand, then let me explain it to you. 
Suzumiya-san has always thought that no matter what happened, you would be her only 
companion. Even if you were to complain, you would still support her. No matter what she did, 
only you could accept her." 

What are you talking about? The only ones who could accept her behavior were the Saints who 
have sacrificed in the name of the Lord. Let me state this for the record, I'm neither a saint, nor a 
great leader, I'm just an ordinary person armed with common sense. 

"What's going on between you and Suzumiya-san?" 

What do you mean, what's going on between us? 


"Could you please cheer her up? The pigeons are cute now, if Suzumiya-san continues to be this 
depressed, the shrine pigeons might turn into something that wouldn't resemble pigeons at all." 


"Like what?" 

"If I knew, I wouldn't be this troubled. It wouldn't be a pretty sight if the shrine were crawling 
with slimy tentacled creatures all over the place, would it?" 

"Try spreading some salt." 

"This doesn't solve the root of the problem. Right now Suzumiya-san is in Limbo; she has been 
actively trying to improve her situation through the making of her movie. But since she got into a 
quarrel with you yesterday, her energy is now being channeled in the other direction - from 
positive to negative. It would have been manageable if it had it ended right there, but if this were 
to continue, things might become complicated." 

"So, you're asking me to console her?" 

"It's not that hard, is it? All you need to do is make up with her." 

What do you mean make up with her? I've never gotten along well with her before. 

"Huh? I've always thought you were a calm and reasonable person. Could I have been 
mistaken?" 

I kept silent. 

The reason I was so mad at her yesterday was because I couldn't stand the sight of her bullying 
Asahina-san... Sort of. . . Or maybe I was calcium deficient. So, last night, I drank a whole liter of 
milk and surprisingly, my temper had eased a lot by the time I woke up this morning. However, 
milk is just a form of sedative. 

Anyway, why should I swallow my pride and console her? No matter which way you look at it, 
it's hard to dismiss that this girl has gone too far. 

Koizumi began to purr like a kitty cat starting to nibble on its food, and patted me on the 
shoulder, 

"I'm counting on you because, in terms of distance, you are the closest person." 



As long as I didn't turn around, I wouldn't make any eye contact with Haruhi sitting behind me. 
Today, Haruhi seemes to be paying rather special attention to the sky, as she spent most of the 
time looking out of the window, and this lasted until lunchtime. 

For some reason, even Taniguchi was full of shit today, 

"What kind of movie was that? I don't even know why I wasted my time coming!" 

During lunch, Taniguchi cursed as he munched on his lunch. Haruhi is usually away from the 
classroom during this time, and today was no exception. He wouldn't be saying such things if she 
were around. He's the sort of coward that only speaks out loud when it's safe. 

"This is all Suzumiya's fault. This is going to be a crappy movie, I'm sure of it!" 

I really wouldn't give a damn about anyone's opinion. I don't consider myself a great leader, and 
I don't intend to leave my name in the annals of history. I'm just a small character standing in a 
corner and mumbling by myself. I excel at finding the most minor fault within my mom's 
cooking, even though I can't cook myself. 

But this was something where I had to make myself clear, so I spoke, 

"The last thing I want to hear is you complaining." 

Taniguchi, what have you ever done? At least Haruhi took part in the school festival and tried 
her best to do something, though she would end up giving us a lot of trouble. But at least she's 
way better than those idiots that do nothing but complain all day. You moron! You ought to 
apologize to all the Taniguchis in Japan, for all your namesakes out there, you're nothing but a 
disgrace to them! 

"Forget it, Kyon." 

Kunikida tried to mediate, 

"He's just venting his frustration. Actually we'd like to hang out more with Suzumiya-san. We're 
really envious of you, Kyon." 

"Like hell we are," Taniguchi said glaring at Kunikida, "I'm not joining that idiotic club." 

"That's odd coming from you, just who was it that agreed to come right away when asked to? 
Weren't you feeling giddy yesterday? You even canceled your original plans for the day." 

"Stop picking on me, dumbass!" 


So that's why Taniguchi is so pissed. He specifically canceled all his plans for that day, just so he 
could enthusiastically come help as an extra, but he barely appeared in one shot and even ended 



up nearly drowning. I see, he does deserve some sympathy, but I didn't feel like sympathizing 
with him now because I am just as pissed. 

I knew better than everyone else that Haruhi's movie was too stupid to be watched by anyone, 
because she only knows how to charge forward without thinking of consequences. Since we only 
filmed whatever she came up with, there was no script to speak of. Only a genius could turn this 
movie into a success. And in my opinion, Haruhi doesn't really have talent as a director, but if 
people start to criticize her because of that... Wait, why am I so angry with that? 

"Kyon, Suzumiya-san seems to be in a worse mood than usual, did something happen?" 

I listened to Kunikida's question while thinking. 

I was the same as Taniguchi. All I ever did was follow whatever she said, and then curse at her 
behind her back. I sense a bit of myself when observing this guy. Sometimes cursing at Haruhi, 
sometimes feeling helpless... That was my job. But it was a job that can only be done by me, and 
no one else 

I was feeling so frustrated that even the food tasted bland. I feel sorry for my mom who made 
this lunch for me. Damn it, Taniguchi, you idiot. If you hadn't said some useless stuff, I wouldn't 
be doing things that I would later regret. 

Just what have I done? 

I closed the lid of my lunchbox and bolted out of the classroom. 


Haruhi was in the clubroom, connecting the video camera to the computer; she seemed to be 
working on something. She looked up in shock when I suddenly opened the door. Was that a 
curry bun she was holding in her left hand? 

She frantically threw the bun away, then put her hand behind her hair... I think. At this point her 
hair opened up. I don't know why she did that, as if she was trying to quickly untie the hair that 
she had tied up behind her head. I didn't notice it too carefully, since I could think about that 
later. I then said what I needed to be say to her, 

"Hey, Haruhi." 

"What?" 

Haruhi went into defensive mode, looking like a kitten. I said to that face of hers, 


We need to make this movie a success! 



That’s what they call impulse, right? A person like me would probably go emotional about twice 
a year, because of this, I was angry yesterday. The timing was just perfect. And today, this 
impulse was caused by Koizumi's ambiguous words and Taniguchi's stupid face. Not to mention 
Haruhi looking melancholic made me very frustrated and uneasy. If I had let these feelings build 
up inside of me, I'd have probably ended up smashing the classroom window, so I had to do 
away with these feelings right now. Why must I justify whatever I do? 

"Hmph." 

Haruhi then said boastfully, 

"Of course we will. After all, I'm the director. Success is already guaranteed. I don't need you to 
state the obvious." 

Such a simple person. Just when I had thought she was beginning to show some gentle feelings 
worthy of praise. Yet the enigmatic light within Haruhi's eyes was once again reignited with 
flames of confidence. I have no idea where she gets her fuel. She’s just too simple. She’s like an 
RPG boss that keeps casting regenerative spells on herself, but I couldn't care less. She needs to 
be more balanced. She should finish off the players in one blow and quickly bring out the "Game 
Over" screen... What am I talking about? Ah yes, those sort of pressure -reducing games just don't 
exist. I'm not sure what this means, since it has no meaning to begin with, but anyway, I don't 
like seeing Haruhi looking depressed, and I don't want to see her like that again. She was made 
to run aimlessly in those marathons that are endless, pointless, and without destination. It’s 
just. . . If she were to suddenly stop in her tracks, she might subconsciously do something totally 
unnecessary, that’s all. 

...That was about what I was thinking then. 


That same day, after school. . . 

"Couldn't you have said it better?" Koizumi said. 

"I'm sorry." I replied. 

"Though you have indeed raised her spirits, I had wished you would have expressed it... without 
raising further obstacles." 

"...Sorry." 

"Instead of things going back to normal, the situation has now become even more extreme." 



There's no way we can conceal this. 


Koizumi looked at me with his deep-colored eyes as I contemplate. He didn't sound like he was 
blaming me, but his voice sounded very melancholic. Is that so? Things have become worse, and 
it looks like it's because of me. 

Why's that? How should I know? 

There were cherry blossoms everywhere. This was the cherry blossom path by the riverside, 
where Asahina-san revealed her true identity to me. Let us reconfirm the season again: it is 
autumn right now. There were still some remnants of summer within the air, but normally, 
Japanese cherry blossoms usually bloom in spring. It is usually acceptable if a flower blossoms 
earlier than its usual season, but to blossom half a year early was way too ridiculous. Were the 
cherry blossoms going as crazy as the sun itself? 

Under the falling cherry blossom petals, only Haruhi had her engines fired up. Wearing her tight 
waitress costume, Asahina-san wavered and walked aimlessly. Was it because she was unsettled 
by the flowers blossoming in the wrong season? 

"I never thought things would go my way so easily. I was just thinking of filming a scene full of 
cherry blossoms! This rare meteorological event sure is coincidental!" 

Haruhi spouted out, while making Asahina-san stand in all sorts of poses. 

It was impossible after all. Whenever people do something impulsively, it is always their future 
selves that suffer. It feels like I have continually been learning this lesson for the past six months. 

And I wasn't meditating on, "I should've done that," but rather, "I shouldn't have done that." A 
very negative thought indeed. Someone give me a gun! A real gun! Not a toy gun! 

The cherry blossom trees seemed to start blossoming after noon, and the petals started to fall by 
evening. The local television station even reported this as a rare event, how I wish they would 
just think of this as a one-off freak incident. Just blame it all on the abnormal events caused by 
the climate change of recent years, OK? 

"That's what Suzumiya-san seems to think." 

Koizumi said while walking shoulder to shoulder with Asahina-san. The sight of Koizumi, with 
his superficial good looks, and Asahina-san, who is genuinely pretty, standing together is enough 
to enrage all the males in this world. I was certainly feeling pissed by this. 

Nagato had no comment about the petals floating about, as she carried her usual blank expression 
and stared at the petals, whose biological clocks were completely messed up. The pink petals 
landed on her black cloak, creating a strong contrasting effect. Does she know about the 
pigeons? 



That's right! Let's grab a cat! 


Haruhi said, suddenly. 

"A sorceress ought to have a familiar, and what better than a cat? Where can we find a black cat? 
And we need a good looking one as well." 

Hang on, wasn't Nagato supposed to be an evil alien magician? 

"What's the difference? Let's go! That's what I've visualized anyway. Where can we find a cat?" 
"In the pet store of course!" 

Surprisingly Haruhi made a compromise after hearing my casual suggestion, 

"A wild cat would do. We probably need to borrow and return one from the pet store. It's too 
bothersome. Is there an empty patch of land where we can find wild cats? Yuki, do you know?" 

"Yes." 

Nagato nodded slightly, then she began to walk as though leading us to the Promised Land like a 
religious leader. What else does Nagato not know? If I asked her where the wallet I lost five 
years ago was, she would probably tell me, since it contained all the wealth I had then, which 
was about 500 Yen. 

About fifteen minutes later, we arrived at the back of the deluxe apartment block where Nagato 
lived. There was a well-trimmed lawn surrounded by trees, which obscures the view from the 
outside. A few cats were gathered there, they looked like wild cats, but they weren't afraid of 
people. When I walked towards them, they didn't try to run away, maybe they thought we were 
going to feed them? Some of them even purred under our legs. Haruhi picked up one of the cats 
and said, 

"Aren't there any black cats? All right, we'll use this cat then!" 

It was a spotted cat, not to mention it's male. Yet Haruhi had no idea how much of a pedigree 
this cat had, and she wasn't in awe by the cat she had randomly picked up. 

"Here Yuki, this is your partner. Get along well with him." 

Nagato received the cat with a blank expression as though she'd received a tissue pack 
distributed by those street salesmen, and the cat also carried a blank expression as it was carried 
over to her hands. 

Filming started right away, and as this was the rear of an apartment block, location no longer 
seemed to be a concern in making this movie. My camera was already stuffed with scenes that 



just came out of the director's mind from time to time. I'm not in charge of editing all these 
broken scenes into a coherent story, am I? 

"Yuki, attack Mikuru-chan!" 

At Haruhi's command, Nagato knelt in an odd manner and turned into a black mage with a cat on 
her left shoulder. No matter how one looked, the cat just looked too heavy. It was good that the 
cat obediently clung onto Nagato's shoulder, but Nagato's whole body was tilted to one side as a 
result. She even tried her best to keep her balance to prevent the cat from falling off. She 
maintained this unnatural stance while waving her wand towards Asahina-san, 

"Take this." 

I believe incredible beams would be emitted from Nagato's wand in this scene, right? 

"...Kyaa!" 

Asahina-san yelled as though suffering from excruciating pain. 

"And, cut!" 

Haruhi shouted satisfactorily, and I stopped the recording at once, while Koizumi placed down 
the reflector board he was carrying. 

"I want that cat to talk. He is the cat of a magician after all. He needs to at least say something 
mean." 

Now this is ridiculous. 

"Your name is Shamisen. Hey, Shamisen! Say something!" 

How is he supposed to talk? No, actually, I beg you, please don't speak. 

Perhaps my prayers were answered, as the cat with the ominous name Shamisen didn't start 
speaking Japanese, but instead licked his tail and totally ignored Haruhi's command. This was 
natural, but I still breathed a sigh of relief. 

"Everything is going according to plan." 

Haruhi reviewed the footage taken today and smiled happily, it's as though her depression this 
morning never happened at all. It was good that she cheered up so quickly, and for once I was 
impressed with her. 

"Kyon, you're in charge of looking after the cat." 


Haruhi folded her director's chair and gave me this unreasonable command, 



"Take good care of him when you bring him home, because we still need him for further filming. 
Tame him well! Teach him a trick by tomorrow, like jumping through a fire hoop or something." 

If the cat can obediently cling onto Nagato's shoulders, then I guess it should be clever enough 
for that, right? 

"That's it for today, tomorrow will be the final day of shooting! Filming today went smoothly, 
the story's about to enter its climax, and everyone's managed to maintain their spirits! Go get 
some rest, we'll need that spirit for tomorrow as well!" 

Haruhi waved her loudspeaker and dismissed us, then went home on her own while humming the 
ending theme to "Blade." 

"Phew..." 

Both Asahina-san and I sighed, Koizumi placed the reflector board under his arms and prepared 
to leave, while Nagato stared blankly at Shamisen like an inkless pen. 

I knelt down and caressed the cat's head, 

"Thanks for the hard work. Maybe I'll buy some cat food for you, or would you prefer dried 
fish?" 

"I'm fine either way." 

A clear male baritone voice said the above sentence, and it wasn't spoken by anyone here. I saw 
Koizumi and Asahina-san looking stunned, then turned to look at Nagato's poker face. They all 
had their sights fixed on one place - my feet. 

There by my feet stood the cat, who looked up at me with his round black eyes wide open. 

"Hey!" I said, "Did you just speak, Nagato? I wasn't asking you. I was asking the cat." 

"That's what I thought as well, so I answered you. Did I say something wrong?" 

So said the cat... 


"Now that took me by surprise. . . 
Koizumi said. 


"It's too shocking, a cat actually speaking. . . 



Asahina-san said. 


ft ll 


Nagato remained silent as she picked up Shamisen, who then spoke, 

"I don't understand why you're so shocked." 

He said while clinging his paws onto Nagato's shoulders. 

A demon cat... Is that what cats become after living for a few years? 

"I'm not sure myself. The concept of time does not concern me. What is the present? What is the 
past? I have no interest in that." 

It was already amazing that he could speak, but little did we expect him to say such abstract stuff 
as well. Now don't be getting cocky, you're just a fur ball. I wonder if we should auction off 
Shamisen on the internet? 

"For you, I probably have made sounds that sound like human speech, but aren't parrots the 
same? From what did you deduce that I have made sounds that conveyed literal meaning?" 

What the hell are you talking about? 

"From this conversation, since you have precisely answered my question." 

"Maybe the sounds that I made just happened to match the nature of your question." 

"If that's the case, then wouldn't that mean the conversations human beings make with each other 
are all meaningless?" 

Why on earth am I having a serious conversation with a cat? Shamisen the wild cat licked his 
front paws and rubbed under his ears and said, 

"Exactly. You may have carried out what seemed like a conversation with that lady, but no one is 
sure if both of you have conveyed what each of you wanted to say," 

Shamisen said with his deep voice. 

"That's because each person may or may not say what's in their heart depending on the situation," 
Koizumi replied. 

You shut up! 

"Now that you mention it... It does make sense," Asahina-san said. 



I'm sorry, could you please not agree with the cat as well? 


I examined every other cat on the lawn, besides Shamisen, all the other cats made a "meow" or 
"purr" noise. Seems like it's just this cat that has gained the ability to utter human languages. 
How can this be? 



I examined every other cat on the iawn, besides Shamisen , all the other cats made a "meow" or "purr" 
noise. Seems like it's just this cat that has gained the ability to utter human languages. 

It's all that stupid girl's fault. 


"Looks like things have taken a turn for the worse." 

Koizumi elegantly sipped his mocha and continued, 

"It seems we have underestimated Suzumiya-san," 

"What do you mean?" Asahina-san asked in a lowered voice. 

"The movie world created by Suzumiya-san has begun to become a part of this reality. The 
movie contents that she visualized, have manifested themselves into this world, and have become 
a part of our reality. Like how Asahina-san could fire lasers or how the cat could talk. If she 
suddenly says, 'I want to film a scene of a giant meteorite falling to Earth,' it might just happen." 



Right now, besides Haruhi, the other four members of the SOS Brigade were now gathered 
inside the cafe in front of the station. Koizumi had proposed an emergency meeting to deal with 
Haruhi, a plan to which we all agreed. It looks like things are getting serious. At first glance, we 
seemed like a bunch of high school students gathering together while chatting merrily (though it 
was only Koizumi that smiled merrily), but what we were actually doing sounded like a bunch of 
suspicious villains plotting to stop the Defender of Justice from using her ultimate attack. By the 
way, we let Shamisen wait at the grass lawn outside, and we specifically told him not to talk to 
anyone, or even respond to anyone's questions. The cat did not look displeased, and merely said, 
"Okay." He then sat quietly by the shade of the tree by the roadside and watched us leave. 

"What's going to happen from now on...?" 

Asahina-san said, looking very concerned. The poor girl seemed very troubled, since she has 
been permanently scarred mentally by Haruhi's movie. Nagato maintained her blank expression 
and was still dressed all in black. 

Koizumi slowly sipped his warm milk coffee and said, 

"All I know is, we can't leave Suzumiya-san unattended like that," 

I swallowed the ice water in one gulp, since I've already finished drinking my glass of apple tea, 
"So aren't we supposed to find a way to stop Haruhi?" 

"Who else can stop her from making this movie? I don't have the confidence to." 

Neither did I. 

Once the engine is started, as long as Haruhi doesn't turn it off, she would go on non-stop. She 
would be like a dead fish if she ever stopped. If we trace her ancestral bloodline, we could 
probably find traces of tuna and bonito DNA in it. 

Nagato doesn't seem to be even thinking as she silently drank her almond tea. Maybe she really 
wasn't thinking, or maybe because she understood everything, there was no need to think further, 
it's even possible that she simply isn't good at talking. After spending six months with her, I still 
find it hard to figure out what she's thinking. 

"What about you, Nagato? What do you think of this?" 


Nagato placed her cup onto the tray without making a sound, then smoothly turned her head to 
look at me and said, 


Unlike last time, Suzumiya Haruhi will not disappear from this world. 



Her voice is so cool and crisp. 

"The Integrated Data Sentient Entity deduces that this is enough." 

Koizumi placed a hand elegantly over his forehead and said, 

"But that would be troublesome for us." 

"Not for us. We look forward to seeing changes in our observation subject." 

"Is that so?" 

Koizumi quickly decided to ignore Nagato from then on and turned back towards me, 

"Then, which genre should we classify Suzumiya-san's movie as?" 

Sigh, once again he has spoken in an ambiguous way. 

"The structure of the story can be divided into three forms. First, it could occur within a certain 
framework. Second, it could break through this framework and create a new framework. Third, it 
could repair the broken framework back to its original state." 

As expected, he began his lengthy speech in Martian, which would lead people to think, "What 
the hell is he talking about?" Asahina-san, you don't have to seriously listen to his bullshit! 

"As we exist within this framework, if we want to understand our world, we need to think 
rationally, or grasp it through observation." 

What on earth is this "framework" then? 

"Try thinking about this 'reality' we are in now. This world is such that we can exist in our 
current state. Conversely, the movie that Suzumiya-san is making is fiction to us." 

Isn't that obvious? 

"The real problem now is that things that only exist in the fictional world have now affected our 
'reality.'" 

The eyes of Wonder Mikuru, the pigeons, the cherry blossom, and the cat. 

"We must stop the fictional world from creeping further into our reality." 

I always felt Koizumi looked rather enthusiastic whenever he's talking about this stuff, he looked 
quite cheerful. To counter that, I decided to put out a gloomy face. 



"The making of this movie has acted as a filter for Suzumiya-san to manifest her powers. To 
prevent this, we must let Suzumiya-san realize that 'this is all fiction.' Because right now, she has 
unwittingly blurred the lines between fiction and reality." 

You sure sound excited about this! 

"We must find a rational way to prove that things from the fictional world aren't real. We must 
make sure this movie is completed in a reasonable way." 

"So how are we going to normalize the fact that a cat can now talk?" 

"Normalize isn't the correct term. Because in this way, a world will be created where cats could 
talk. In our 'reality,' cats can't talk. If no one finds anything wrong with a talking cat, then the 
consequences could be dire, because in our world it is simply impossible for cats to talk." 

"Then what about aliens, time travelers and espers? Is their existence just a possibility?" 

"Well, of course, since they are existing right now. In our world, this is a very normal thing, 
though the catch is that we mustn't let Suzumiya-san know about this." 

Really? 

"Let's assume our world to be an object observed from afar. If she believes the 'real world' to be 
what you once used to believe it to be, a world without supernatural phenomena - where aliens, 
time travelers and espers don't exist - then this 'reality' we're in would be a totally fictional 
world." 

So is this the true face of God you've been talking about? 

"But that is what is observed from afar. You have learned first-hand that supernatural phenomena 
do, in fact, exist in this world - which includes Nagato-san and myself. Since we're here, you can 
only accept this fact within the confines of this world. I'm sure you have a different view of the 
world than you had one year ago." 

Perhaps I would be happier if I never knew this fact. 

"How should I put it? Hmm, I can confirm this. Right now Suzumiya-san's status is just like how 
you were in the past. In other words, she still hasn't changed how she views this reality. She may 
talk a lot about it, but deep inside she doesn't believe that supernatural phenomena actually exist. 
Let's take what she has seen as an example; she has treated the appearance of Sealed Dimension 
and 'Avatars' as a dream. As dreams are fictional, the 'reality' of this world gets to be 
maintained." 


That's what we've been working hard to maintain all the time. 



"Right, therefore there's no doubt that fiction can be manifested into reality. If Suzumiya-san 
treats these occurrences as 'fact,' then the talking cat would be incorporated into this 'reality.' As 
it would be strange in this world for cats to talk, in order to allow talking cats to become part of 
'reality,' the world would have to be reconstructed. Does Suzumiya-san want to create a world 
where cats can talk? I don't think the world would reach the realm of science fiction completely, 
since judging from her way of thinking, I don't think she would do something so troublesome. 
Though it's also possible the world could become the stuff of science fiction at once, where no 
reason is needed to explain why cats can talk. As long as 'talking cats' existed, that could be 
enough for her. There would be no question as to 'why cats can talk,' since the world would 
become a place where it's natural for cats to talk." 

Koizumi put down his mocha and toyed with the edge of the mug with his fingers as he said, 

"This would be problematic, as it would overthrow all the concepts already known to mankind. 

In my own way, I respect how humans make observations and come to conclusions. Under this 
method, it is impossible, without any external influences, to find a cat in this world that can talk 
through mere observation alone. It is very strange to us for a talking cat to exist in this world." 

Then how do you explain your existence? Aren't espers the same as talking cats? 

"You're right. For this world, we're still an anomaly. Not confined to any known rules of this 
reality. We only exist thanks to Suzumiya-san. This cat is the same, because Suzumiya-san 
wishes to let him appear in this movie, which is why he exists. From what I can understand, 
Suzumiya-san is trying to create a link with this reality and the fictional elements of the movie 
she is trying to make." 

Now is not the time to understand, now is the time to figure out what we should do! 

"Which is why we need to categorize which genre this movie belongs to." 

How I wish he wouldn't push so far. While it may be gratifying to show off one's ability to speak 
lengthily, one ought to consider the feelings of the audience as well! Your long speech is just as 
annoying as the ones the principal makes in the morning school assembly every week. Just look, 
even Asahina-san has been looking perplexed since the beginning. 

But Koizumi did not intend to stop here, 

"If all this happened in the fictional world, then no explanation is needed as to why the cat could 
talk or how Asahina-san could fire beams from her eyes. Since in that world, 'it's a matter of 
fact.'" 

I turned my gaze out of the window to make sure Shamisen was still there. 

"But, if there is a reason for talking cats and the Mikuru Beam to exist, then from the moment it 
existed, then it's possible that it would be discovered by someone. The reality where cats can talk 
and where Asahina-san fires beams actually does exist, it's just that no one has noticed it yet - by 



observation, its existence will eventually be proven. Yet at that moment, our whole world will 
change completely. We would now need to readjust our knowledge of this world, from one 
where paranormal events don't exist to one where they do exist, as the world we thought we once 
knew has now become a fictional world." 

I sighed deeply. Is there no way to shut this guy up? 

So this is what you're trying to say: a sufficient reason is required to explain the existence of 
talking cats. But if that's the case, how do you explain the existence of you, Nagato and Asahina- 
san? Aren't you, along with the both of them, part of those supernatural phenomena? 

"It's probably like that for you, no further explanation is needed. For you, the world has already 
changed. Isn't the world you knew when you first entered high school different from the world 
you know now? Your concept of reality has now changed for good. Haven't you been 
encountering new realities? And haven't you confirmed that people like us really do exist?" 

"What are you trying to say?" 

"Let us return the subject to the movie itself, the movie Suzumiya-san is trying to make can 
probably be classified into the science fiction genre. In this movie, no reason is needed to explain 
why cats can talk or why Asahina-san and Nagato-san possess magical powers. It was enough 
that way." 

So, all we need to do is give some meaning to the existence of the demonic cat, the waitress from 
the future and the evil alien magician? 

"Not exactly, because by giving them their raison d'etre it would be bothersome for the outside 
world. If the observer realizes that 'the world has changed' after watching the movie from 
beginning to end, then their existence would be acknowledged, and the world will change into 
one where it's not a big deal for cats to talk. I do not wish for the world to get any more 
complicated than it is." 

Neither do I. The only ones unbothered would be probably Nagato and her people, I guess. 

"I said before that we need to decide the context of this movie, all we need to do is to just ask her 
which direction this movie is going. The context should be such as to dispel all the questions 
raised by the mysteries and paranormal events occurring within the movie, and through a 
reasonable ending, it should pull the distorted world back into its original form. There is one 
context that allows the world to be resurrected when it is about to end, and is able to find a 
reasonable answer to all sorts of mysterious events." 

What context is that? 

"The deduction context, especially through basic deduction. Once we have made such a context, 
all surreal scenes could be dealt with by people saying 'I don't believe this,' and the paranormal 
events would be ignored easily. All we need to do then is just make it look like the talking cat 



and Asahina-san's lethal beams are some sort of elaborate hoax, and our reality would remain 
intact, am I right?" 

The cafe waitress was rather troubled by Asahina-san's costume, yet she pretended not to see that 
while collecting our empty glasses. Koizumi waited till she left, then continued, 

"Obviously, a talking cat is beyond the confines of common sense, yet the talking cat does exist. 
In other words, things that are not supposed to exist have now appeared. For our world, this is a 
very inconvenient fact." 

He flicked the water droplets on his glass with his finger and said, 

"In order to solve this problem, the movie must have a reasonable ending. One that is 
theoretically acceptable by everyone - or rather, by Suzumiya-san. An ending where talking cats, 
time travelers and alien magicians can exist. " 

"Is there such an ending?" 

"Of course! It's quite simple. All we need to do is to find a perfect explanation in the ending for 
all the unreasonable events that have occurred before." 

What's your explanation then? 

"It is all but a dream." 


We were all engulfed by a deafening silence. After a while, Koizumi spoke again, 

"I'm not joking..." 

I looked contemptuously at this gentleman toying with his hair parting with his fingers and said, 

"You think Haruhi would accept such an explanation? She's serious about getting a prize, she 
wouldn't care whether the movie's real or not. And now you're saying it's all just a dream? No 
matter how dumb she is, she's not going to make a movie that stupid." 

"Of course I have taken her feelings into account when making this conclusion, this is merely the 
most convenient ending for us. Having her declare that the movie is nothing but a dream, a hoax, 
or all made up would be the best solution possible." 

For you maybe. . . It's probably not a bad solution for me either, but what would Haruhi think of 
it? She has probably thought up a very shocking ending that she would be very pleased with. 


Besides, I don't want to get involved in dream-like affairs anymore. Furthermore, I don't want to 
hear you pouring out long speeches at us, which aren't fun at all anymore. 



On the way home, I decided to stop by the pet food store. I bought the cheapest cat food bowl 
and some cat food at a special discount price, I even asked for a receipt before stepping out of the 
store. Shamisen wiped his face with his front paws and looked at me. The cat followed me as I 
began to walk. 

"Now listen up. When we get home, don't say a single word and behave like how a cat should 
behave." 

"I don't know what you mean by how cats behave, but since you have requested, I'll just have to 
obey." 

"Look, just don't talk to me. And answer everything with a meow." 

"Meow." 

My sister and mom widened their eyes at the sight of me bringing a wild cat home. I used the 
excuse that I thought up of earlier which was, "His owner needed to go on a trip and has asked 
me to take care of him." To which they accepted gracefully, especially my sister, who cheerfully 
caressed Shamisen, while the demon-cat simply purred. Isn't that rather un-catlike for you? 


After a relatively peaceful night, I still had to return to school today. I wasn't comfortable with 
leaving Shamisen at home, so I brought him to school as well. As I urged him to hide inside my 
bag, Shamisen replied boastfully, "All right then." And crawled into the bag. I won't let him out 
till we reach the school! 

It was only a few days away from the school festival, the atmosphere within the school has 
begun to get more livelier as though in synchrony with Haruhi's enthusiasm. What ever happened 
to yesterday's relaxed atmosphere? 

The early morning was filled with the sound of musical instruments and people singing, and 
there were people making signboards and notices everywhere. There were even people 
wandering around in all sorts of weird costumes, I had no idea which show they were 
participating in. Judging from such a situation, it wouldn't be strange if one or two sliders from a 
parallel universe were to blend into this crowd. It was only the people of Class 1-5 who had no 
enthusiasm whatsoever. Maybe it's because Haruhi sucked all their enthusiasm away? 


When I entered the classroom, I found Haruhi already sitting on her seat and writing something 
vigorously. 



"So you've finally decided to write a script?" 

I walked to my desk as I asked. Haruhi hummed loudly and lifted her chin highly as she replied, 
"Of course not! This is the promotional flyer for the movie!" 

"Let me see!" 

She picked up her notebook and hovered it in front of my face. 

Asahina Mikuru-chan ' s Precious Secret Video Collection Revealed! You'll 
regret it if you miss this ! 

The SOS Brigade proudly presents - The most stunning movie of the year! 

Come see what it's all about! 

On it the above provocative words were written along with some other stuff about how the year's 
going to end soon. I don't really mind this, but wouldn't it mislead people into thinking only 
Asahina-san would appear in the movie? If someone can actually figure out what sort of movie 
this is just by reading the above promo, I'd look at him with a new light of respect. Frankly, even 
as the cameraman, I don't know what sort of movie we're making, and I never had much of a 
chance to express my opinions on the topic. She's probably not sure of it herself. Nevertheless, 
she sure knows how to write this many words for a flyer. 

"I'm going to make copies of the flyer and give them out at the school entrance during the 
festival. Hmm, the response would be great! I don't think Okabe would say anything if I wore a 
bunny- girl costume during the school festival, right?" 

No, I still think he would have something to say about it. This is a prefectural high school with 
decently strict rules, after all. So it's better if you stop giving the school deans any more 
stomachaches! 

"Besides, Asahina-san has to prepare for her class's food stall. Not to mention Koizumi and 
Nagato have activities with their classes as well. We'll be the only ones free that day." 

Haruhi looked at me with suspicious looking eyes, 

"So you're saying you want to dress up as a bunny- girl?" 

How is that even possible? Just you would be enough. As for me, I'll be standing behind carrying 
the promo board for you. 

"By the way, you do know there's only a few days left till the school festival this Saturday and 
Sunday, right?" 


Of course I do. 



"Oh really? Seeing as to how relaxed you are, I would have thought that you've had the dates 
confused." 

"How am I relaxed? Don't you see me trying to think of more provocative words?" 

"Besides advertising, shouldn't you be focused on more important matters? When's the movie 
going to be finished?" 

"Soon. All that's left is a few more retakes, then we'll edit the scenes together, and then we'll just 
add in the background music and visual effects during post-production and we're done." 

Now that's surprising. Personally I feel that the number of retakes we require far outnumber the 
scenes we have already filmed. What movie was this director trying to make anyway? Not to 
mention we probably need to spend even more time in post-production work, I just hope I'm 
wrong. 


During recess, between the third and fourth period. 

"Kyon-kun!" 

Her voice was so loud it could blow everyone inside the classroom into mid-air. Out of reflex, I 
turned to where the voice came from, and saw Tsuruya-san sticking her head into the classroom 
door. I can barely make out Asahina-san's soft hair by her side. 

"Come over here." 

I rushed over as though being drawn by Tsuruya-san's smile. Haruhi maintained her habit of 
being out of sight from the classroom during recess, so she wasn't here then. Probably wandering 
off somewhere in school. This was a great chance. 

I came out to the corridor and Tsuruya-san pulled my sleeve at once and said, 

"Mikuru has something to say to you!" 

Asahina-san trembled as she handed me a small piece of paper, 

"This... Um, it's a promotional voucher." 


That's the voucher for our class's fried noodle stall!" Tsuruya-san further explained. 



I graciously received it at once. It's probably a discount voucher or something like that. 

According to the printed words on the chopped voucher, I could get thirty percent off with this 
when ordering noodles. 

"Please do come with your friends." 

Asahina-san lowered her head deeply while Tsuruya-san opened her mouth as wide as a comic 
book character and smiled, 

"That's all for now! See ya!" 

Tsuruya-san said and prepared to leave, Asahina-san also followed suit, but then decided to come 
back towards me. Tsuruya-san giggled when she saw this and stopped to wait for us. 

Asahina-san clasped her fingers together and said to me, 

"...Kyon-kun," 


"Yes?" 

"About what Koizumi-kun said the other day, I think it's better if you don't believe like that... 
Maybe you would think I have issues with Koizumi-kun if I say that... Um, I don't like it that 
way as well, but..." 

"You mean him calling Haruhi a God?" 

If you mean that, don't worry, I don't believe him either. 

"I, um... I have a different view on this, which means, um... It's different from Koizumi-kun's 
explanation." 

Asahina-san sighed and looked at me with her eyes opened wide, 

"Suzumiya-san does indeed possess the power to change the 'present,' but I don't think she has 
the ability to reconstruct the world. This world has been this way since the beginning, it's not 
created by Suzumiya-san." 

If that's the case... Does that mean her views are in contrast with Koizumi's? 

"I believe Nagato-san thinks differently about it as well." 

Asahina-san said while twirling the tip of her uniform with her fingers, 

"Um... If I say this, people wouldn't feel comfortable about it, but..." 



Tsuruya-san smiled looking at us as she stood from a distance, carrying the face of a mother 
swallow looking forward to seeing her offspring leave the nest at last. I wonder if she's got the 
wrong idea about this? 

Asahina-san sounded very stiff as she said, 

"Koizumi-san's views are different from ours. If I asked you to... Um... Not believe Koizumi-kun 
so easily, I sound like I'm criticizing him, but..." 

She frantically waved her hands, 

"I'm sorry, I can't explain this properly. I'm no good in saying this... I mean..." 

She kept lowering her head and then looking up at me repeatedly, 

"Koizumi-kun's people have their own stance and theories, and so do we. I think Nagato-san's 
the same as well, so..." 

Asahina-san looked at me as though finally mustering all her courage to decide something. She's 
still so cute even when she looks this serious. I trembled in joy at being able to observe her pretty 
face from such a close distance. I confidently replied to her, 

"I know, how could Haruhi possibly be a god?" 

Instead of donating to that jerk's religion, I'd rather have Asahina-san set up a new religion and 
worship her as its founder. She'd probably attract more believers this way. I'd probably make a 
seal of approval just to guarantee this. 

"For me, Asahina-san's explanation is much easier to understand than Koizumi's." 

Asahina-san revealed a cheerful smile; I guess this is how sweet beans would look if they could 
smile. 

"Um, thank you. But Koizumi-kun isn't included within myself, please understand." 

She said some very ambiguous words, then looked up at me, and then quickly turned around as 
though trying to run away. I wasn't even trying to hug you. 


Asahina-san waved gently at me, then she followed Tsuruya-san like a black duckling following 
her mother and left. 



We really ought to speed up our progress. I headed towards the clubroom while wondering why 
I was thinking about this so seriously. I had wanted to use the computer for a while, but I didn't 
expect someone would already be sitting inside, wearing her pointed hat and black cloak while 
reading her book. 

Before I could say anything, 

"I believe this is what Asahina Mikuru thinks," 

Nagato said as though she could read my mind. 

"Suzumiya Haruhi isn't the creator and was not responsible for the creation of this world. This 
world has existed in this state since long ago. The supernatural existence of espers, temporal 
anomalies and alien life forms wasn't created through the wishes of Suzumiya Haruhi, and has 
existed since long before that. Suzumiya Haruhi's task is to unconsciously discover the existence 
of these beings. She started using her abilities three years ago, but her discoveries have not led 
her to become self-aware. She is able to search for the paranormal, but it contradicts with her 
own views on the paranormal world. This is because one faction is still preventing her from 
becoming self-aware." 

She calmly spoke without even smiling. Nagato looked at me with her piercing eyes as she said 
the above, she then said the following before closing her mouth, 

"And that would be us." 

"Asahina-san has different explanations from Koizumi. Would it become inconvenient if Haruhi 
were to witness something extraordinary?" 

"Yes." 

Nagato turned her gaze back to her opened book, as though our conversation wasn't that much of 
a big deal, 

"She came to this time plane for the sake of protecting the future she came from." 

I have a feeling that she's casually describing something that sounds very important. 

"For Asahina Mikuru' s time plane, Suzumiya Haruhi is a variable. In order to stabilize the future, 
it is necessary to input the correct value. Asahina Mikuru's mission is to adjust that variable to an 
acceptable value." 

Nagato quietly flipped the pages without making any sound. Her emotionless black eyes didn't 
even blink once as she continued, 



"Koizumi Itsuki and Asahina Mikuru have different approaches in their missions regarding 
Suzumiya Haruhi. They will never acknowledge each other's interpretation, since each side's 
theory would threaten the very meaning of the other's existence." 

Wait. . . didn't Koizumi say he only got his powers three years ago? 

Nagato quickly answered my question, 

"No one can guarantee that Koizumi Itsuki is telling the truth." 

The image of his handsome smiling face flashed by in my head, true enough, no one can 
guarantee that he's trustworthy. It's just that Koizumi was able to provide a decent explanation 
for all the things that I've encountered so far. Who could guarantee that it's the right explanation? 
Even Asahina-san told me not to believe him, but Asahina-san was the same, who could 
guarantee that Asahina-san's explanation is correct? 

I looked at Nagato and thought, maybe what Koizumi said wasn't true, and maybe Asahina-san 
never realized that her opinion could be wrong, so perhaps only this calm alien wouldn't lie. 

"So what do you think? Which is the right explanation? You mentioned something about the 
possibility to self-evolve, what kind of outcome would that have?" 

The bookworm wrapped all in black remained emotionless and said, 

"No matter how accurately I convey it, there is no way you can find solid proof for it." 

"Why's that?" 

At this moment, I saw something I rarely ever see. I was stunned to see Nagato having a 
confused look as she said, 

"Because no one can guarantee what I say is true." 

Nagato then placed down her book and left the club room, leaving this line, 

"At least for you." 

The chimes began to ring, signaling classes were to begin soon. 


I don't get it. 


How could a normal person get it? 



Whether it's Koizumi or Nagato, they ought to explain things in a language that people can 
understand! I even suspect whether they had intentionally made it hard for me to understand. 

You two ought to take more time to organize your thoughts, or else no one is going to listen to 
what you say, as the words will simply go in one ear and out the other. 

As I walked with my arms crossed, a bunch of people in stateless medieval costumes walked past 
me and turned into the corridor corner. If Nagato were to blend in with these people with her 
black cloak, no one would suspect a thing. Maybe some class has decided to begin filming their 
own science fiction movie, not wanting to let Haruhi take all the glory. That wouldn't be too bad, 
at least they won't be as frustrated as I am and would happily make their movie, led by a director 
with more common sense and giving sensible commands. 

I sighed deeply and headed for the Class 1-5 room. 


Haruhi was the only one who thought the movie production was going according to plan, while 
the vertical lines just increase and darken on my face, as well as Koizumi's and Asahina-san's. 

As filming progressed, many things happened along the way. For some time, the toy gun has 
been spraying water bullets instead of BB bullets; Asahina-san would tremble every time Haruhi 
brought a different colored contact lens (the gold ones could fire rifle bullets, while the green 
ones would emit micro-black holes), and she would end up getting bitten by Nagato; the cherry 
blossoms wilted the following day as soon as they had blossomed; and it seems the white 
pigeons in the shrine have now morphed into the supposedly extinct passenger pigeons (as 
Koizumi secretly told me); even the Earth's precession has shifted a bit (according to Nagato). 

The normal world was slowly beginning to derail. 

As I dragged my exhausted body home, the whiskered animal opened his mouth again, 

"So is it fine as long as I keep my mouth shut in front of that energetic girl?" 

The cat sat on my bed with the posture of the Sphinx. 

"You sure are quite obedient," I gently grabbed on Shamisen's long tail, which eventually slid 
out of my fingers. 

"Since that is what you wish, though even I feel that it wouldn't be a good thing to let that girl 
hear me speak." 


Well, that's right according to Koizumi. 



As this cat can talk, we needed to find a plausible reason to explain why it could talk. A simple 
solution is to create a world where no one would find it strange to see cats talking. But what sort 
of world would that be? And what kind of cats would there be? 

Shamisen yawned endlessly and tidied his tail as he said, 

"There are many kinds of cats, aren't humans the same?" 

I'd sure like to know what you mean by "many kinds." 

"What can you do even if you knew? I don't think you can ever replace cats, nor do I think you 
understand how cats think." 

This is really frustrating, everything is. 

As I was about to go take a bath, my sister came in saying I have a visitor. 

I went downstairs wondering who it was. I never thought it would be Koizumi. I decided to go 
outside the house to talk to him under the night sky. I didn't want to invite him in, or I would end 
up having to hear him go on endlessly with his long speeches. Besides, I don't want to listen to 
him and Shamisen simultaneously lecturing me with abstract philosophies that are difficult to 
understand. 

Just as I thought, Koizumi flooded me with his speeches, and in the end, he even said this, 

"For Suzumiya-san, the minor details and sub-plots aren't important. I actually find this 
interesting, and that was enough as well. The story lacked any resolution or tight plotting, or any 
clues to a sequel, since she has after all come up with a plot in a very short time. She did not 
even consider an ending, who knows, the movie might simply end without one." 

What's wrong with that? So you're saying if the movie ends in such an unresolved way, this 
reality would be permanently distorted and become the new reality? Haruhi must have an ending 
in mind, and it must be an ending that is in line with reality. This is a problem that we must 
consider, as Haruhi would never consider such stuff, and even if she does, it would only end in 
disaster. So it's still better for us to do the thinking. But why must we think of such stuff? Isn't 
there someone else that can carry this cursed burden for us? 

"If he even exists, then yes." 

Koizumi shrugged his shoulders, 

"I believe he would have appeared before us long ago if he existed. So we must find a solution as 
soon as possible, especially you. I look forward to seeing you work harder." 


Work harder on what? Please be specific. 



"Because once the fictional world becomes reality, our theories will be for naught. Maybe 
Asahina-san would be affected as well, because her faction seems to have their own set of 
theories. As for Nagato-san, I don't know much about her, but I guess observers usually accept 
whatever outcome they obtain. Her faction would calmly accept any outcome, even if the Earth 
were to disappear; as long as Suzumiya-san still exists, that would be enough for them." 

The street lamps shined on Koizumi's expressionless face within the dark, 

"I can honestly tell you this, the 'Organization' and Asahina-san's faction aren't the only people 
whose philosophies revolve around Suzumiya-san. There are many more of them out there, so 
many that I'd want to tell you about the secret battles we have fought behind the scenes, allies 
that have betrayed us, and all the conspiracy and deceit, as well as the destruction and killings 
that have been going on as we speak. Each faction has poured all their resources to battle each 
other in order to survive." 

Koizumi continued, carrying a worn-out, cynical smile, 

"Even I don't find our theory to be absolutely correct; but for the current situation, there would 
be no place for me if I didn't accept this theory for now. I was initially set up to be with one side, 
and I am not able to switch sides. It's just like how a white chess piece cannot become a pawn for 
the black side." 

Why can't you use Othello and shogi as examples? 

"All this probably has nothing to do with you. It's the same for Suzumiya-san, which is a good 
thing, especially for Suzumiya-san. I hope that she’ll never learn about this. I don't want to leave 
a scar in her heart. By my standards, Suzumiya-san possesses traits that are likeable. Of course, 
you possess them as well." 

"Why are you telling me all this?" 

"Just slipped out of my mouth, there's no particular reason. Maybe I was joking, or maybe I was 
possessed by a strange thought, or maybe I'm just trying to win your sympathy. No matter, it's all 
unimportant." 

Indeed, it wasn't funny at all. 

"I might as well tell you something else that's not really important. Have you ever thought why 
Asahina Mikuru... I'm sorry, why Asahina-san would hang out with us? True, Asahina-san has 
the looks of an adorable pretty girl, and I can understand how people can be moved to give her a 
helping hand. You probably sympathize with what she's doing, right?" 




£1 

I decided to go outside the house to talk to him under the night sky. I didn't want to invite him in, or I 
would end up having to hear him go on endlessly with his long speeches. 

"And what's wrong with that?" 

Protecting the weak from the strong is what every person should aspire to. 

"Her mission is to get close to you, which is why Asahina-san has that appearance and 
personality, which happens to be your favorite type of girl - the weak and cute type. Since you 
are the only person who Suzumiya-san listens to, to a certain extent, it was imperative that she 
has your attention." 

I fell as silent as a deep-sea fish, and recalled what Asahina-san told me half a year ago. Not the 
Asahina-san now, but the Asahina-san from a further future, the adult Asahina-san. Having 
called me out to meet her with a note, that Asahina-san told me, "Please don't get too close with 
me." Did she tell me that after considering her own position? Or is that really her genuine 
thought? 

Seeing as I remained speechless, Koizumi continued in a deep voice that sounded as old as the 
Jomon-sugi, 

"If Asahina-san is merely playing the role of an innocent cute girl, but is in fact up to something 
else, what are you going to do? She probably thinks it's easier to get your sympathy this way. 
The way she looked innocent and helpless when having to put up with Suzumiya-san's 
unreasonable demands, this was all part of her plan. She did all that so that she could catch your 
attention." 

I think this guy's totally nuts. Learning from Nagato, I replied without conveying any speck of 
emotion, 



"I'm sick and tired of hearing your stupid jokes." 

Koizumi slowly smiled and stuck out his arms in an exaggerated manner, 

"Oh, I'm sorry. Looks like I still have a long way to go at making jokes. I made all that 
unreasonable stuff up just so I could fool you. Just trying to say something that would leave an 
impression in your mind. Have you actually taken it seriously? Well, you've actually given me 
some confidence in my acting. Now I can go into the play feeling relaxed." 

He laughed deafeningly and continued, 

"Our class is going to hold a Shakespearean play, 'Hamlet' to be precise. I'll be playing 
Guildenstern." 

Never heard of him, I'm guessing it's just a supporting character anyway. 

"He was supposed to be, but half-way through rehearsals we decided to use the Tom Stoppard 
version instead, so I have to appear in even more scenes now." 

Well, keep up the good work. Though I had no idea there were other versions of Hamlet besides 
the Shakespearean version. 

"Because of Suzumiya-san's movie and my class's play, my schedule is very tight right now, so 
I'm feeling the pressure already. If I look tired, that's probably the reason. I don't think I can take 
it any more if a Sealed Dimension decides to appear now. That's why I came to ask you for help. 

I have to ask you to think of a way to prevent Suzumiya-san's movie from becoming the source 
for further paranormal events." 

You mean a reasonable ending? Didn't you say we could just declare it all to be a dream? 

"Just make Haruhi think that everything within her movie is just make believe... Right?" 

"She must clearly be aware of it as well. She's a clever girl, as she knows that a movie is fictional 
after all. I just feel it'll be best if things can go along that direction. I must let you understand that 
things can't continue like this, and this has to be settled before filming ends." 

I'm counting on you. Koizumi bowed to me, and then disappeared into the darkness. What the 
hell man? He came just so he could shove all the responsibility onto me? Since he's already so 
busy, I have to take care of the rest, is that what he's saying? If that's the case, he's found the 
wrong person. This isn't a card game, and I'm not shirking responsibility either. Suzumiya Haruhi 
isn't the fifty-third card. She's neither the King, nor the Ace, and she's not the Joker even. 

"But..." 


I mumbled to myself. 



Looks like I can't leave this like that anymore. Leaving Nagato aside, Asahina-san and Koizumi 
seem to be at their limits already. The world was probably the same as well. . . It's just that I 
haven't noticed. 


"Damn it..." 

This is so annoying! Damn! I'm feeling frustrated as well! 

I thought very hard, how could I cancel out Haruhi's wild imagination? The movie world and our 
reality are two different objects, they don't interfere with each other - what should I do to make 
her completely understand that? What can I do to make her once again accept what was once 
taken for granted? A dream...? What else besides that? 

There wasn't much time until the school festival begins. 


The next day, I made a suggestion to Haruhi. After debating for a while, she finally nodded and 
agreed to it. 


"We're done!" 

Haruhi shouted loudly while slapping her loudspeaker, 

"Nice job guys! All the filming is complete now! I'd like to thank everyone for their hard work, 
especially myself! Hmm, sometimes I really amaze myself, great job!" 

Hearing her announcement, Asahina-san the waitress finally slumped on her knees, and felt like 
weeping tears of joy. In fact, she was indeed weeping, but Haruhi had interpreted it as Asahina- 
san being moved by her speech. 

"Mikuru-chan, it's still too early to cry now, save your tears until we receive the Palme d'Or or 
the Oscar for Best Picture! We'll reap the success together then!" 

There was only a day left till the school festival. We were gathered at the rooftop of the school 
complex, the filming schedule was so tight that we had no time even to eat. 

The final battle between Mikuru and Yuki was put to an end by Koizumi Itsuki, who, after 
suddenly becoming aware of his powers, used his incredible power to blast Yuki out to the other 
side of the universe. 



"This is perfect! A superb movie! Just as I expected! We'll attract lots of studios wanting to buy 
this movie if we take it to Hollywood! But first we'll need to sign a contract with a smart agent!" 

Haruhi's embrace of globalization was breathtaking. I don't know who would watch this movie, 
the only selling point would be its female protagonist, the other cast and crew weren't even worth 
mentioning. If possible, I'd like to go as Asahina-san's agent. I'm sure I could make a little bit of 
commission from this. I might as well try and groom Haruhi as the next idol. Maybe I should 
start by sending their photos and resumes. 

"Is it finally over?" 

Koizumi smiled cheerfully at me and said. 

Now that pissed me off, though that free of charge smile of his suited him just well. I prefer him 
this way instead of him looking melancholic, and that makes me really uncomfortable. 

"When you look back, now that filming is over, it feels as though it had all happened in an 
instant. Some people say time passes by quickly when one is happy, I wonder who the happy one 
is?" 


Who knows? 

"Can I count on you to take care of the rest? Right now all I'm thinking of is the play rehearsals 
for my class. Unlike a movie, you can't do retakes in a play." 

Koizumi carried his usual smile, and patted me on the back of my shoulder as he whispered, 

"There's one more thing I need to thank you for, on behalf of the group, as well as myself." 

He then left the rooftop. Following Koizumi, Nagato quietly left as well without carrying any 
emotions. 

Asahina-san had her shoulders wrapped by Haruhi's arm as they looked out towards the sea in 
the distance. 

"Our target is Hollywood and Broadway!" she was forced to shout out loudly. It's a good thing to 
have a great ambition, but if you go along the direction you're currently facing, you'll end up in 
Australia instead. 

"Sigh." 

I sighed and sat down, putting the camera by my side. For Koizumi, Nagato and Asahina-san, 
things may well be over; but for me, the problems have merely begun. There were still things to 
do. 



Someone needs to find a way to convert this massive footage, which is basically a pile of 
worthless junk data, into a "movie." And who's in charge of that? I didn't even have to guess. 


On Friday evening, only Haruhi and I remained in the clubroom, while the other three went to 
work on their respective classes' activities. 

While it was good that filming was complete, it had dragged on for too long, and there was little 
time left to deal with other matters. After uploading the footage onto the computer and 
repeatedly viewing it, I came to a conclusion - this was basically a cheap promo-video for 
Asahina Mikuru. 

To be frank, until the very end I still had no idea what sort of movie Haruhi had made. The 
waitress, the girl of death, and the young man grinning like an idiot all the time, just what was 
wrong with their heads? And there simply wasn't enough time to work on the post-production, 
like visual effects, not to mention we don't have the skills to do it. Looks like we'll just have to 
release this raw footage without going through any editing. 

Haruhi began to pout, 

"How could you show something that isn't even complete? Don't you have a solution?" 

Are you talking to me? 

"Rushing me won't help, the school festival's tomorrow, and I'm already trying my best. It's 
already a headache for me to splice together all the scenes that you thought up in an instant. I 
don't feel like watching any movies right now." 

But Haruhi was good at quashing other people's opinions instantaneously, 

"Wouldn't you be able to make it if you stayed up all night?" 

Who's going to stay up? I didn't ask that, because right now there was only me, and Haruhi 
looking straight at me with her black sandalwood-like eyes. 

"We could just stay here tonight," 

Haruhi then said something that made me very surprised, 

"I'll help you." 



Judging from the result, Haruhi never helped much. For a while she stood mumbling behind me, 
but within an hour, she was already lying asleep on the table. Really, I felt like filming her in her 
sleep. I could place the image of her sleeping in the movie's ending. 

I might as well tell you, it seems I too have fallen asleep after a while. Because by the time I 
opened my eyes, the sun had already risen, and the keyboard was imprinted onto half of my face. 

So, staying up last night had no meaning whatsoever, the movie was still incomplete. I tried all 
ways to edit here and there, trying to make out a thirty minute movie, but it still looked like a 
piece of pathetic trash. I guess this is what a movie would look like when made by an impulsive 
amateur. It could have been fine if it only showed Asahina-san doing the shopping street 
commercials in her bunny-girl costume, but as the whole thing was cut and pasted together 
sloppily, pulling together a story that was pretty much non-existent, the movie was just 
unbearable. In the end, the movie wasn't edited, and visual effects weren't even added, it was just 
a hilariously rubbish movie. I don't think even Taniguchi would want to watch that. 

I wanted to throw the computer out of the window, but the sunlight shining in caused me to 
squint my eyes. As I spent the whole night sleeping in an unnatural pose, I now felt aches all 
over my body. 

It was six-thirty when I was awakened by Haruhi, who had gotten up before me. Now that I think 
about it, this was the first time I spent the night at school. 

"Hey, so how'd it go?" 

Haruhi looked at the screen over my shoulder, so I moved the mouse and clicked on the screen. 
"...Wow!" 

Haruhi exclaimed delightedly, while I widened my jaw in shock. Our movie title was revealed in 
an impressive CG background. "The Adventure of Asahina Mikuru-chan Episode 00" then 
began. Though the story was very inconsistent, the lines could barely be heard, the camera could 
be seen shaking, even the director yelling was shown in the footage, but it seems to have reached 
a certain level for a movie made by high school students. Not only were there lasers shooting 
from Asahina-san's eyes, even Nagato's wands emitted beams with strange colors. 

"Heh heh." 

Even Haruhi was impressed, 

"Not bad at all! It's not perfect, but it shows you can still come up with something as long as you 
put your heart into it." 

It wasn't me. It was probably someone else who did this while I was sleeping, there was no way I 
could do this. The most likely suspect was Nagato, followed by Koizumi. Asahina-san was out of 
the question. Or it could be a mysterious person who has yet to appear? That has to be it. 



For some time, we quietly watched the movie that somehow managed to edit itself. If it weren't 
for this small screen... I'm sure our impression would be even greater if we saw it on a larger 
screen. 

The movie on the screen now showed its final scene, Koizumi and Asahina-san walked hand-in- 
hand under the path with cherry blossom petals fluttering about. The camera then panned up and 
faced the clear blue sky, whereupon the ending theme then began to play as the credits started 
rolling out. 

Finally, there was Haruhi's disclaimer. 

It was a disclaimer that I convinced Haruhi to do at all costs. I told her that she must include this 
crucial element at the end of the movie, and it had to be done by the director herself. 

It was a magical disclaimer that would eliminate all of the problems created: 

"The events depicted in this movie are fictitious. It has nothing to do with any person, 
organization, and any other known terms and phenomena. It's all made up nonsense. Any 
resemblance to the above is purely coincidental. Oh, the commercials are different. Please give 
your support to Oomori Electronics and the Yamatsuchi Model Store! Huh? You want me to 
repeat it? The events depicted in this movie are fictitious. It has nothing to do with any person, 
organization... Kyon, why do I have to say this? Isn’t it obvious?" 

(Chapter 5 end) 


Epilogue 

Epilogue 


By the time the school's festival started, we weren't that busy any more. 

Actually I think the most fun of any event occurs during the preparation stage. Once an event 
starts, everyone is so busy that no one notices time passing by. Very soon it's time to conclude 
and clean up. So before that happens, let's enjoy this free time! At the very least, I'm free today 
and tomorrow; I hope no one will yell in my ears during my relaxation period. 

As for Haruhi, the only person who just might complain about this peaceful time, she's in her 
bunny suit again, passing out flyers at the front gate. I kinda want to know how many she'll 
manage to pass out before teachers and administrators step in again. 


I walked out of the club room, striding towards the lively campus. 

My heart, filled with unrest just a while ago, finally seemed to have settled down. Koizumi 
believed that, and Nagato also promised, so there shouldn't be any problems right now. Because 
Shamisen can't talk anymore, this is what I needed to confirm that everything is back to normal. 
The current Shamisen is as silent as Nagato; I felt that it would be inhumane to chase him out, so 
I thought I would keep him as a pet. Also, my sister is very excited about having a stuffed toy 
that can move about on its own, so I told my family that "the previous owner decided to move." 

This male cat would sometimes make meowing noises, but that was what it sounded like to my 
ears, maybe it really did talk... Eh, nevermind. 

In terms of disappearances, those who were wearing weird costumes from several days before 
did not actually participate in the festival. 

I've seen the pamphlet passed out by the executive committee, and they weren't on there. I've 
also spied on possible club rooms (such as the Theater Society), and failed to find anything. Who 
were those people? 

"Hmm." 

I unconsciously murmured to myself, while walking leisurely in the school's building. 

What if there were supernatural people walking around the school? What if they were also 
wearing futuristic clothing? Right, just like Nagato. 

Had it been really like that, then Nagato-san might've dressed like that to conceal her true 
identity from Haruhi, if only to give her the impression that clothing like those only appear 
during festivals. 

Nagato has always been the silent type, so I have no idea if any of this is true. But it's very likely 
that another sort of conflict is happening outside of my knowledge, perhaps happening in a very 
relaxed manner. Even if we're on the verge of Earth's destruction, I believe she'll still remain 
silent. If I ask her directly, she might tell me. But, I think she would just say something that is 
incomprehensible using the language available to humans, and I don't think I have the intellect to 
try to comprehend what she might say. 

Hence, I chose to be silent myself. Especially to Haruhi, I believe I should keep my silence. 


Change of topic. Our movie is currently playing in the viewing room. I believe only ours and the 
Movie Research Society's film are being played. This is after Haruhi made a huge protest to that 
club, and they finally gave in and agreed to show our movie along with their production. Hey, it 



couldn't be helped, only that room has a projector. I have to admit they were looking very 
troubled until the very end, but still, they, as well as anyone else in this world, don't seem to have 
the ability to reject any decision from Haruhi. So in the end, they were practically forced to show 
our low quality movie that has commercials in the middle. 

Since we're at this topic, I should also let you know that according to the student executive 
committee, the SOS Brigade still isn't an official club. So "The Adventure of Asahina Mikuru" 
isn't on the official list of events. Looks like we won't be able to win the first prize after all. I 
think all those votes intended for us will probably go to the Movie Research Society instead. 

Oh yeah, remember that midnight movie that supposedly gave Haruhi the idea of making our 
own film? After some research, I discovered that it didn't win the Golden Globe Award. It was a 
black and white promotional movie which was shown in the Cannes Film Festival called "Only." 
She must've been crazy to think this film would win any award. To confirm this, I even rented 
the film. It turned out that I fell asleep within the first half hour. So I have no idea whether the 
content is fun or boring. I think I'll attempt it again before I return it. 


Since it was a rare opportunity, I also watched the play from class 1-9. 

Koizumi was smiling the whole time during the play. His character was someone who died very 
stupidly at the end; the stupidity level rivaled that of Haruhi' s movie. But somehow it seemed to 
be quite popular. Maybe I was unconsciously putting it down because the actor was Koizumi. 
His acting wasn't really acting, it seemed more like him just representing himself normally. That 
was probably another reason why I didn't think it was so good. 

After bowing to the clapping audience, Koizumi winked at me as a reply. Of course I ran away 
from his wink as it reached me. As for Nagato's class, I was going to make fun of them too. 
However, I didn't expect that there was already a long line to the fortune telling room. I took a 
small peek inside. Under the black drapes, in the middle of several girls dressed in black, I saw 
Nagato's white and expressionless face. She put her hands on the crystal ball, talking to the 
customers in a tone without much emotion. Nagato, please, just help them search for lost items 
and don't do anything else. 


About all those abnormalities caused by the movie, they all seemed to be fixed by adding "This 
story is a work of fiction" at the end. But this world can't just be fixed by a simple saying like 
that, can it? Haruhi, Asahina-san, Nagato, Koizumi, and I are all still here, aren't we? How is 
"There is no relation to any real people" even true? Maybe someday, all of us would live out our 
own lives, but at least the SOS Brigade still exists right now, both its chief and its members. 



Ahh... How should I put it? Sometimes I would think, maybe all of this is a giant lie, and Haruhi 
really doesn't have any powers, it's just a joke made up by Asahina, Nagato, and Koizumi. Those 
doves were merely painted; Shamisen talking was just ventriloquism or a hidden microphone; 
and cherry petals in Fall, plus the Mikuru Beam were just special effects. 

Even if it's really like this, I still can't say much to this. 

"So there's no way that it's possible." 

No matter what now, that kind of situation isn't exactly happy. I think everyone being stranded 
together is much more relaxing than being stranded alone with Haruhi. I'm glad I'm not the only 
SOS Brigade member. 

Even if I'm the only normal one. 

The classroom clock entered my line of sight, and this place has already become a place to relax, 
just like the 1-5 classroom. 

Ah yes, now is not the time to space out, it's almost time. How can I waste this precious discount 
coupon? Not to mention I'm also interested in what she's wearing. 

I quickly ran towards the meeting place decided with Taniguchi and Kunikida. The plan was to 
visit the udon place waited upon by Asahina-san. 



Suzumiya Haruhi Volume Three: The 

Boredom of Suzumiya Haruhi 


•Slii 5 

MHR88. 2003*. W80*=-»-X 
■ <**> * f**AiLe®w»j nwu 
^ta-eWtT. *fc. «WW<*3 IT 

«*m*5U w-xmwh, •*!.*/( 
xseasa®. »-«u' 
E>©l3*MrW«B^r<nSA<:BW« 


>/'*?*<>*** 


Cover Page 




Inside Flap 





Prologue Flap 




Prologue 

Prologue 


As much as I'd like to say the club was founded on the melancholy of Suzumiya Haruhi, my own 
melancholy would be a much more appropriate description. The SOS Brigade was established in 
early spring, while the whole self-made movie incident happened in the autumn. The project 
caused me to sigh endlessly, but hardly fazed Haruhi. 

Half a year had gone by between the two events. Of course, in that time, which included the 
summer, Haruhi could not and did not let time pass by pointlessly. It was no surprise that there 
had been so many illogical and absurd incidents. I don't even know if some of them were real 
incidents or just accidents. Let's just say that we were pulled into everything against our desires. 

No matter what you say, seasons come and seasons go. As the average temperature rises, 
inconceivable ideas arise endlessly from Haruhi's mind, similar to how different kinds of insects 
appear out of nowhere. It would be all right if she kept those ideas inside her head, but no, those 
ideas always result in a variety of creepy situations that the whole group is forced to deal with 
properly. What is going on? 

I don't know what Itsuki, Yuki, or Mikuru are thinking, but here is what my self-diagnosis tells 
me, at least. My mind and body are healthy, but every time something happens, I feel as if I am 
some sort of small round animal that can't move easily because I ate too much. The same ending 
always happens, and that is myself rolling on and on down the hill. 

Perhaps I have already started rolling. 

Haruhi has a very bothersome habit: whenever her mind is not filled with happy thoughts, she 
starts thinking up ideas that make you want to laugh and cry at the same time. Anyway, she just 
cannot endure sitting still and doing nothing. She is just that kind of person. Whenever she has 
nothing to do, she will go and find something to do. This will usually be something absurd. From 
my personal experiences, whenever Haruhi says something, the rest of us will not be able to 
enjoy our peaceful days. Perhaps those good old days will never come back. What a troublesome 
person. 

It doesn't matter if the result is good or bad, as long as her life is not boring. That's Suzumiya 
Haruhi for you. 

Because this is a rare chance, let me share with you how our SOS brigade fought back 
“boredom” during the half a year when our melancholy became frustration. As to why I said this 
is a rare chance, I actually don't know. I just think that it wouldn't do me harm if I shared the 
stories. And, anyway, I really hope that at least one person will “share” my indescribable 
feelings. 


Yes... Let's start with that silly baseball game. 


The Boredom of Suzumiya Haruhi 

The Boredom of Suzumiya Haruhi 


One day in the headquarters of the "Suzumiya Haruhi Brigade to Bring More Excitement to the 
World," or SOS Brigade for short (in reality the Literature Club room), Haruhi announced with 
the same enthusiasm as a baseball team captain who drew the first seed at Koushien: 

"We are entering the baseball tournament!" 

It was after school one day in June, and it had been two weeks since the "nightmare" event. Since 
then, I had been unable to concentrate on my studies. My test results were a real life nightmare, 
on this early summer day. Haruhi didn’t seem like she had been paying attention in class, yet her 
results made it into the top 10. If there exists a God in this world, I believe that he is a 
mischievous and biased person. 

Oh well, this didn't matter anymore. I am more concerned with the content of Haruhi’ s 
announcement. What was she talking about? 

I looked around at the three other people in the room. 

The first that caught my eye was Asahina-san, her face as innocent as that of a middle school 
student. If she had white fluffy wings, she would look like a cute little angel on her way back to 
heaven. Her face and small body suits her. I know full well that she can be very glamorous. 

For reasons unknown to me, Asahina-san was the only person in the room not wearing her high 
school uniform. Instead, she was wearing a pink nurse uniform. With her cute lips half opened, 
she looked intently at Haruhi. She is not a nursing student nor a costume-wearing weirdo, but is 
just merely following the instructions of Haruhi. Haruhi must have bought this costume from 
some odd website again. She's been bringing weird clothes and making Asahina-san wear them. I 
believe many people would be asking the same question, "What's the point in wearing these 
clothes?" 

She replied, "Why do we need an explanation for that?" 

Haruhi instructed Asahina-san, "You must wear this costume whenever you're in this room, 
always!" Asahina-san would resist with "But, but..." In the end, she would still obediently follow 


Haruhi’s commands with tears in her eyes. She looked so adorable that sometimes I felt 
compelled to embrace her from behind. Yet so far I have not been able to do that, I assure you. 

By the way, just for your information, two weeks ago her standard attire was a maid costume, but 
right now it’s hanging on the clothes rack. Actually the maid costume suits Mikuru better and I 
preferred it more, so I do hope she would revert to that costume soon. I believe Asahina-san 
would comply with the audience's request, though she would be troubled and embarrassed by it. 
Yup, that would be good. 

After hearing Haruhi’s speech on the baseball tournament, Asahina-san the nurse made her 
comment, 

"Umm " 

She made a sound as sweet as a canary then stopped. It was natural for her to have such a 
reaction. 

I turned my gaze to the other girl in the room. 

Her height is similar to Asahina-san's, but her presence, compared to Asahina-san, was like that 
of a thin cabbage to a sunflower. Nagato Yuki, as always, was indifferent to her surroundings as 
her gaze was fixed on her open hardbound book. 

About every ten seconds, she would flip the pages with her finger, it was then that people could 
realize that this girl was still living. I was sure a parrot would have a bigger vocabulary than she 
would, and even a hibernating groundhog would be more active than she is. 

As her presence doesn’t really make a difference, there was no need to describe her in detail. If I 
have to make a brief description, then she's a first year student, like Haruhi and me, and she is 
the sole member of the Literature Club - the original occupant of this room. In other words, our 
club, the SOS Brigade, has borrowed the use of this room from the Literature Club. To be more 
precise, we have taken over this room like parasites. Of course the school has not approved of 
this, since our application to form a club has been ignored by the student council. 


I turned my gaze away from Nagato's expressionless face, and saw sitting by the side the 
handsome grinning face of Koizumi Itsuki. He looked at me with an amused expression. This 
guy's opinions were of lesser importance than Nagato's. This mysterious transfer student - 
according to Haruhi anyway - brushed aside his bangs and slowly broke into a smile, much to my 
chagrin. As our eyes met, I had a strong urge to punch him as he shrugged his shoulders 
meaninglessly. He was seriously asking for a beating. 


What did you say we are entering? 



As no one said anything, I, as always, replied on behalf of the group. Why does everyone treat 
me as a communication relay to Haruhi? Nothing is as bothersome as this duty. 

"This." 

Haruhi gave me a flyer cheerfully. I took a glance at Asahina-san, who had bad memories with 
flyers, and saw her backing away trembling, and read out the words on the piece of paper. 

"The Ninth City Amateur Baseball Tournament." 

It was probably a tournament to decide which baseball team was the best in the city. It was 
organized by the city council, and seemed to have some history, being held every year. 

"Hmm " 

I raised my head. Haruhi’ s one-hundred percent smile almost glowed straight into my eyes, I 
backed away for half a step involuntarily. 

"So, who's entering this field baseball tournament?" 

I knew the answer already, yet I still decided to ask. 

"Us, obviously!" Haruhi said firmly. 

"When you say us, does that include me, Asahina-san, Nagato, and Koizumi?" 

"Who else can it be?" 

"Couldn't you have asked for our consent first?" 

"We'll need to find four more people." 

As usual, she only hears the things she wants to hear. I suddenly thought of something. 

"Do you know the rules for baseball?" 

"More or less. It just involves pitching, catching, base running, sliding and blocking. I joined the 
Baseball Team for a bit, so I know the basics." 

"A bit? Just how long did you join them for?" 

"Just under an hour. It was dead boring so I left." 

If baseball was so boring, then why join a baseball tournament? And why do we have to 
participate as well? Faced with my natural question, Haruhi made the following reply, 



"This is a chance to leave our mark on the world! If we win this tournament, we could become 
famous overnight, it's a great opportunity!" 


First, I don't want the name of this brigade being spread even further. Secondly, so what if the 
SOS Brigade becomes famous overnight? What do you mean by a great opportunity? 

I didn’t know what to say, and Asahina-san looked stunned as well. Koizumi mumbled, "So 
that's how it is," without looking concerned. As for Nagato, was she troubled by it? She probably 
didn't even hear what was being said, as she remained as still as a pottery, her face remained 
blank as ever. 

"Isn’t it a nice idea, Mikuru-chan?" 

Faced with Haruhi’s sudden question, Asahina-san seemed withdrawn, 

"Eh? But... But " 

"Well?" 

Like a crocodile ambushing a little deer drinking water at the lake, Haruhi moved behind 
Asahina-san, who was about to stand up, and grabbed the tiny nurse - or hospital attendant to be 
precise - from behind. 

"Kyaa! Wh... What are you doing?!" 

"Listen, in this brigade, the orders of the commander are absolute. Insubordination is a serious 
offense! We'll handle all opinions during the meeting!" 

Meeting? Does she mean those meetings which she holds whenever she felt like stuffing weird 
ideas down our throats? 

Haruhi grappled Asahina-san's neck with her snake-like arms as Asahina-san struggled, 

"Doesn't baseball sound like fun? Just so you know, our target is to win this! Not a single defeat 
will be accepted! Because I hate losing!" 

"Wah " 

Asahina-san rolled her eyes and blushed furiously as she trembled. While Haruhi held Asahina- 
san tight like a professional wrestler and nibbled at her ears while staring at me fiercely, 
seemingly unhappy with me, and looking enviously at Asahina-san. 

"Any problems?" 

It wouldn't matter even if we had any. No matter what we say, you never intended to listen to 
them anyway. 



I don't see why not. 


Hey! Don’t just agree blindly! How about raising your objection every once in a while? 

"Then I'll go get the baseball equipment from the Baseball Team!" 

Haruhi bolted out of the classroom like a small tornado. Asahina-san, finally free from Haruhi's 
grasp, slumped onto her chair exhausted. 

Koizumi expressed his thoughts. "We should be lucky that she's not starting a war to capture 
aliens or planning a trip in search for Unidentified Mysterious Animals. Baseball has nothing to 
do with the terrifying paranormal phenomena which we fear most, right?" 

"Makes sense." 

I've decided to agree with his reasoning for now. No matter how insane Haruhi is, she has not 
asked to go search for aliens, time travelers and espers. If that's the case, instead of wandering 
around the city searching for supernatural occurrences which was near impossible (this happened 
to be the main activity of the SOS Brigade), we might as well play a game of baseball. Besides, 
even Asahina-san was nodding her head in agreement. 

However, our speculations were wide off the mark. Not only did they miss their target, the 
arrows fired by Haruhi had shot through the wall and had flown off somewhere. I only learned of 
this soon after. 


At any rate, I thought to myself, even if it's not baseball, anything that could attract attention 
would do for her. The SOS Brigade which Haruhi had carried the banner for not only has a 
despicable name, it's not even a club, not to mention it's not recognized by the school, it was only 
created because she felt like it. 

The official name, "The Suzumiya Haruhi Brigade to Bring More Excitement to the World," is 
not only long and condescending, it just sounds abstractly absurd. After my suggestion to shorten 
the name got cruelly rejected, I had not been able to find a chance to change its name. 

I once asked Haruhi what kind of activity this club is involved in, Haruhi replied with the face of 
a soldier who had just cut off the head of the enemy general, 

"To find aliens, time travelers, and espers, and play with them!" 

This was the famous quote of the eccentric Suzumiya Haruhi, well-known around school since 
the beginning, and has been associated with queerness ever since she said that. 



This was just like crows searching for glowing objects; cats leaping at any small rolling objects; 
and rushing for the insecticide when one sees a cockroach in the kitchen. Once she sees 
something that interests her, be it dodgeball, netball or cricket, she'll probably yell loudly, "I 
want to do that!" Maybe I should be grateful we aren't playing rugby, since we would need to 
find more people to make up the numbers for rugby. 


To put it simply, Haruhi was just feeling bored. 


I had no idea what deal Haruhi had gone through, but she returned like a cyclone carrying a 
whole box of baseball equipment. Inside the small cardboard box which looked as though it 
contained an abandoned puppy were nine worn-out baseball gloves and a baseball bat with 
plenty of dents on it, as well as a few dirty hard baseballs. 

"Wait," 

I said, looking once again at the flyer description, 

"This is a softball tournament. Why are you bringing baseballs?" 

"What's the difference? They're still balls, and they still fly when you hit them with a bat. Don't 
worry about that." 

I remember playing baseball back in elementary school, but I haven't touched this game ever 
since then. However, I at least knew the major difference between a baseball and a softball - it 
hurts when you get whacked by a regular baseball. 

"Then wouldn't it be fine as long as we don't hit anyone?" 

Haruhi rejected my objection with a look that said, I don 't see what all the fuss is about. 

I decided not to argue with her, 

"Then when's the match gonna be held?" 

"This Sunday." 

"That's the day after tomorrow!! Isn't that way too soon!?" 

"But I've already registered. Oh, don't worry, I've decided the team will be called the SOS 
Brigade. That I'm pretty sure of." 



I felt exasperated, "...so where are you going to find the other team members?" 

"We'll just randomly grab anyone walking around." 

Are you serious? With the exception of one person, anyone targeted by Haruhi is usually not a 
normal person. That rare exception would be me. And I had no intention on getting acquainted 
with even more mysterious people, 

"All right then, you stay put. I'll take care of choosing the team. First..." 

I thought of the guys in Class 1-5. The only ones who would come at once without hesitation... 
That'll be Taniguchi and Kunikida I guess. 

Hearing my suggestion, Haruhi replied, 

"Those would do." 

She treats her classmates as mere objects. 

"It's better than none." 

The other guys would probably flee at the mention of Suzumiya Haruhi 's name. Now, where to 
find the other two players? 

"Excuse me," 

Asahina-san politely raised her arm and said, 

"If it's possible for my friend " 

"Then that'll do." 

Haruhi responded immediately. Looks like anyone was fine. Maybe for you it didn't matter who 
it was, but I was concerned. Asahina-san's friend? When and where did she befriend someone? 

Asahina-san probably noticed my concerned look and said to me, 

"It's fine. This person. ..is a friend I've met in class," 

She tried to allay my fears. At this moment, Koizumi spoke as well, 

"In that case, maybe I should bring a friend as well? In fact, I know someone who's interested in 
our club..." 

I shut him up before he could finish. There's no need to bring your buddies over, they're going to 
be freaks anyway. 



"I'll think of someone. 


If there was no selection criteria, then there are other friends I know of. Haruhi nodded her head 
pleasingly. 

"Then let us begin our training!" 

Oh boy, it was only natural for the topic to come to this. 

"We start now." 

Now!? Where? 

"In the track field." 

Bring it on! The sound of the Baseball Team yelling their slogans can be heard outside the 
window. 


Speaking of which - 1 know it's awkward to suddenly change the subject - but I have to let you 
know, besides myself, the other four people gathered here in this room, for certain reasons, are 
not normal people. Only Haruhi wasn't aware of this. The other three have all willingly revealed 
their identities to me, and hope that I would understand. If my common sense was like the Earth, 
then the three of them would be as incomprehensible as objects revolving beyond the orbit of 
Pluto. However, since the end of last month, I have gone through some experiences that led me 
to believe that they might be telling the truth. I didn't want to know the truth, but ever since I was 
forced into Haruhi's club, I don't think this small wish of mine has ever been granted. 

To put it simply, the reason Asahina-san, Nagato, and Koizumi would appear in this school was 
all because of Haruhi. They all seem to hold a particular interest in Haruhi. 

To me, she was just a very giddy high school girl. But I was the only one who thought that way, 
and lately, I'm having doubts myself about this belief as well. 

I can guarantee that it wasn't me that was going crazy. 

It was the whole world that was going crazy. 



Thanks to the experiences mentioned above, I was now standing in the dusty track field with the 
other out-of-this-world members of the brigade. 

Being forced off the field by us, the Baseball Team looked stunned at us. I mean, how else would 
they react? A mysterious club suddenly appears, with a sailor uniform schoolgirl, who seems to 
be their leader, waving a baseball bat and yelling insanely. While they were still busy being 
awestruck, the track field, which was reserved for the Baseball Team, was taken over before they 
even knew it. They were even made to pick up and throw the baseballs. How can they not be 
bewildered? 

Not to mention our group was dressed in normal school uniforms, plus one nurse amongst us. 
"Let's start with a thousand bats!" 

Just as Haruhi had forecasted, standing in a row on the pitcher's mound, we were now covered in 
a rain of baseballs. 

"Kyaa!" 

Asahina-san knelt down and covered her head with her glove, I risked my life to catch the balls, 
making sure they don't hit her. Speaking of which, each of Haruhi's strikes had a killing instinct 
in them. No matter what she does, she always goes all out. 

Koizumi carried his usual grin and easily dodged the balls. 

"Hmm, I haven't played like this for a long time. Makes me feel nostalgic about it." 

Koizumi casually stepped away from Haruhi's wild strikes while revealing his snow white teeth 
to me. If you have so much energy, why don't you come help protect Asahina-san!? 

I turned to Nagato and saw her standing very still while facing Haruhi. She just stood there, 
completely ignoring the balls flying towards her direction. Not even when the ball flew past her 
ear by a few centimeters did she move a bit. Occasionally she would slowly move her gloved left 
hand, like a remote-controlled robot, and catch the balls that would directly hit her, then slowly 
put her hand down again. You ought to move around more. Or perhaps I should compliment you 
on your good eyes? 

Maybe I shouldn't be paying attention to other people, as a bouncing hard ball skipped past my 
glove and under my legs, and went straight for Asahina-san's knees. How careless of me. 

"Ouch!" 

Asahina-san the nurse yelled, "It hurts " 


She started to sob, I can't take this any longer. 



"I'm counting on you guys! 


After telling Koizumi and Nagato that, I shielded Asahina-san and brought her out of the white 
line. 

"Hey! Where're you going? Kyon! Mikuru-chan! Come back here!" 



Asahina-san knelt down and covered her head with her glove, I risked my life to catch the balls, making 
sure they don 't hit her. 

"She needs medical treatment!" 

I lifted my hand and ignored Haruhi's protests, then carried Asahina-san's arm as I led her to the 
clinic. I'm sure her nurse uniform would fit in better in the clinic than inside the dusty club room 
or the rough track field. I can't be wrong about this. 

Asahina-san covered her eyes with her hands to rub off her tears as she walked shoulder to 
shoulder with me on the corridor, it was only then that she realized she was leaning against me, 

"Kyaa!" 

She made a sound so cute that I would have loved to record it, and leaped away while looking up 
at me with her slightly reddened cheeks, 

"Kyon-kun, you can't. If you get too close to me... It'll happen again..." 

What'll happen again? I shrugged my shoulders and said, "Asahina-san, you can go back now. I'll 
tell Haruhi that the injury on your leg would take two days to heal." 

"But..." 

"Don't worry. Haruhi's the one who's wrong, there's no need for Asahina-san to feel guilty about 
it." 

I shook my hand and said that. Asahina-san lowered her head slightly and glanced at me, her 
teary-eyed look simply increased her charm further. 



"Thank you." 

As Asahina-san gave me a smile so adorable my legs nearly wobbled, she turned around at me as 
though feeling sorry, then finally walked off. Couldn't Haruhi learn from her for once? I have a 
feeling she wouldn't look bad at all like that. 


When I returned to the field, the batting practice was still in progress. What surprised me was 
that the members of the Baseball Team were now in defense, while Koizumi and Nagato stood 
outside the field. 

When Koizumi saw me, he smiled happily. 

"Oh, you've returned?" 

"What's she up to now?" 

"Just as you see. It seems she wasn't satisfied with our performance, and she's been like that 
since then." 

She was simply incredible. Every ball she hit flew to the direction that she had intended. 

The three of us had nothing to do apart from observing Haruhi's astounding strikes. This 
mentally insane girl finally put down her bat and rubbed off her sweat while looking very 
satisfied. Koizumi said cheerfully, "She's really amazing. She actually managed a thousand hits." 

"What's really amazing is that you actually bothered to count." 


Nagato turned away silently, I decided to follow her as well. 

"Hey," 

I made a suggestion to the little schoolgirl in her sailor uniform. "Could you make it rain on the 
day of the match? A big one that would force the match to be canceled." 

"It's not impossible." Nagato walked while answering plainly, "But it is not recommended." 

"Why's that?" 


Partial data alteration of the environment would result in side-effects in the planet's ecosystem. 



Side-effects? For how long? 


"A few centuries to ten thousand years." 

Now that's a long time. 

"Then it's better not to do it." 

"Indeed." 

Nagato nodded her head forward for five centimeters, then continued to walk forward without 
stopping. 

I turned around and saw Haruhi standing on the pitcher's mound preparing to pitch. 


Two days later. Sunday. 8.00 A.M. sharp. 

We were gathered at the Municipal Sports Ground. There were two baseball fields adjacent to 
the athletic track field. The tournament would take two weeks to complete. The tournament uses 
five-inning games. The semi-finalists were to be decided by tonight, with the semi-finals and 
final being played next Sunday. Only our team was dressed in our school's track suit, while the 
other teams were dressed in their standard baseball uniforms. This is a bit off topic, but I'd still 
like to mention this, this was the first time I've seen Nagato wear something else besides her 
school uniform. 

I later learned that this grass baseball tournament had quite some history (this was the ninth 
installment), it looked like a prestigious tournament. If that was the case, how I wished the 
organizers would reject Haruhi's application when she handed it in. 

I might as well mention this, after giving Taniguchi and Kunikida a call, the two of them agreed 
to come right away. Taniguchi's targets were Asahina-san and Nagato, while Kunikida said, 
"This sounds like fun" and decided to come as well. I'm glad that they're both so simple-minded. 

The person Asahina-san brought to help was a second year female upperclassman called 
Tsuruya. Her hair was as long as that of Haruhi's before she cut it short. She was an energetic 
girl, as when she saw me she said, 

"So you're Kyon-kun? Mikuru always talked about you. Hmm..." 

For some reason, Asahina-san felt very nervous with this comment. Just what did she say about 
me? 



At this moment, the fourth player I brought was now facing off with Haruhi. 


"Kyon, come over here." 

Haruhi dragged me towards the side of the organizer's tent with her incredible strength. 

"Just what were you thinking? Look at that thing, you're actually going to let her play baseball?" 

What do you mean 'that thing?' Isn't that a bit too rude? She may be 'a thing,' but she's still my 
sister. 

"She even introduced herself, saying she's now in fifth grade and is ten years old. She's too 
adorable to be your sister. No, that's not the point, it would have been fine if she were playing in 
the junior baseball league, but this is a baseball tournament for all ages!" 

I didn't just bring my sister without thinking, this was all part of my meticulous plan. I thought - 
why on Earth do I want to get up on Sunday morning just to do some exercise? I never intended 
this. It was inevitable that things have developed to its current state. If that's the case, it was only 
natural for me to at least want this tournament, which I have no interest in, to be over as quickly 
as possible. It would be excellent if we lose in no time and everyone can go home. Even without 
my sister, with such a rag-tag group, we'll definitely lose the first game, since the leader of this 
team is none other than Suzumiya Haruhi. If we accidentally win, it would create a chain of 
bothersome events. This was why I had to inject something that would ensure the team would 
lose. If I brought an amateur elementary schoolgirl in, we would surely lose. Like hell we would 
win! 

Of course I couldn't let Haruhi know what I was thinking, I wasn't that insane after all. 

"Hmph, forget it." Haruhi snorted and turned around. "We'll let them win one inning. It won't be 
fun if we win too much." 

Looks like she's hellbent on winning, just how does she intend to win? 

"We still haven't decided on the fielding positions and batting order yet, what do you have in 
mind?" 

"I've already thought of that." 

Haruhi's face shone with satisfaction, as she took out a piece of paper from her track suit pocket. 
Leaving till today to decide on the positions, I have no idea what criteria she uses to decide who 
plays where. 

"I've decided to use this, I'm sure no one would disagree?" 

There were two pieces of papers. Each piece was drawn with eight lines. It resembled those 
ladder-tracing lottery games, was I seeing things? 



"What are you talking about? Of course it's a lottery. It's divided into lottery for batting and 
fielding positions. I'll be the pitcher and first batter, by the way." 


"So you've decided on this method instead?" 

"What's with that look of yours? You got a problem with that? This is the most democratic way. 
Ancient Greek leaders were chosen by ladder-tracing as well, you know!" 

Stop comparing the political system of Ancient Greece with the selection method of a modern 
Japanese baseball team. Besides, you only decided this on your whim, just how democratic is 
that? 

...Forget it. This way, we could lose quickly. According to the tournament rules, the game would 
end if the score difference between the teams was more than ten runs. I think I should prepare to 
go home now, since our first opponent was a top team with the best defense in the tournament 
for the past three years. 


The Kamigahara Pirates. This was the baseball team of some nearby university. In a way, they 
had a tough playing style. They were all very serious, intending to win. We could catch a 
glimpse of their prowess just by watching their pre-match warm up. Their screams were so full 
of power, even their pitching was breathtaking. This was a proper team. From a bystander's point 
of view, they were a formidable opponent. I thought to myself - have we come to the wrong 
place? At that moment, I really wanted to take a look around to make sure whether this was the 
venue for the baseball tournament - the Municipal Sports Ground. 

While I don't feel that losing is a bad thing, I started to have an urge to escape from this 
impending tragedy. Our team was so crappy that I felt like apologizing to our opponents. 

Just when I was about to formulate an escape plan, Haruhi made everyone stand in one row, 

"I'm going to give out my strategy, everyone follow my instructions." 

She sounded so much like a coach. 

"Listen carefully, our priority is to reach base. Once we reach base, we'll be able to steal a base 
before the pitcher throws all three pitches. Swing at the ball if it's a strike, but ignore it if it's a 
ball. Simple, isn't it? Just follow my plan and we'll be able to get at least three runs per inning," 

That was our game plan according to that brain of Haruhi's, but just what was her confidence 
based on? It was based on nothing, of course. She is the physical manifestation of baseless 
confidence. But wouldn't this sort of person usually be called an "idiot?" Besides, this girl is not 



just a normal idiot, she is an idiot at the top of the idiot food chain, the Queen Idiot of the Idiot 
World. 


Let me announce the batting and fielding position of the "SOS Brigade" baseball team, decided 
by the God of Lottery: 

First batter, pitcher: Suzumiya Haruhi. Second batter, right fielder: Asahina Mikuru. Third batter, 
center fielder: Nagato Yuki. Fourth batter, second baseman: Me. Fifth batter, left fielder: My 
sister. Sixth batter, catcher: Koizumi Itsuki. Seventh batter, first baseman: Kunikida. Eighth 
batter, third baseman: Tsuruya-san. Ninth batter, shortstop: Taniguchi. 

That was the line-up of our team. There were no substitutes or managers, and no cheerleaders 
even. 


After both teams paid their respects to each other, Haruhi went straight for the batter's box. 
Completely forgetting the existence of helmets, we had to borrow some second-hand white 
helmets from the organizing committee. If there were anything that truly belonged to us, then it 
would have to be the nine yellow loudspeakers Haruhi brought for us. 

Haruhi pushed the tip of her helmet upwards and picked up the aluminum bat she snatched from 
the Baseball Team, then revealed a fearless smile. 

When the umpire yelled, "Play ball!" The opponent pitcher stretched his arm back and prepared 
to throw the first pitch. 

Whack! 

A loud clear metallic sound was made, and the white ball flew far off. It went over the head of 
the center fielder and bounced off the wall. By the time the ball was thrown infield, Haruhi had 
already run to the second base. 

I wasn't particularly surprised, as this was a piece of cake for Haruhi. Asahina-san and Koizumi 
felt the same as well. As for Nagato, I guess her emotions does not include being surprised. 
However, the other members of the team besides us four were all stunned, and looked awestruck 
at Haruhi, who lifted both her arms and gave a V-sign. Our opponents were even more 
dumbfounded. 

"Their pitcher's nothing! Just do what I did and you'll be fine!" 

Haruhi yelled confidently. Unfortunately, what she did had the opposite effect. Since this would 
lead our opponents to cancel the thought of showing mercy on our girls. 



Our second batter, Asahina-san, wore her wide helmet and walked hesitantly towards the batter's 
box. 


"M, may the best wi Kyaa!" 

Before she could finish, a high angled straight ball came shooting over. How dare these bastards 
do that!? If you strike Asahina-san out in three strikes, you'll have to face serious consequences, 
a brawl was inevitable at best! 

Asahina-san had become as stiff as a Buddha statute, and only looked as the remaining two 
pitches flew past her. When the umpire announced that she was struck out, she breathed a sigh of 
relief and returned to the bench. 

"Hey! Why aren't you swinging the bat!?" 

Haruhi's complaints are nothing, what's important was that Asahina-san was safe. 

Nagato, our third batter, walked silently to the batter's box, dragging the tip of aluminum bat on 
the ground. 


She ignored all the balls being pitched and was struck out very quickly. She then silently 
returned to the bench, took off her helmet and handed the bat to the next batter - me. 


She quietly sat on the bench and reverted to being a decorative doll. 

Haruhi's yells were becoming annoying. Geez, it's your fault for expecting so much from 
Asahina-san and Nagato. 

"Kyon! You've gotta hit this! You're the fourth batter! The cleanup hitter!" 

I really do wish you wouldn't put so much hope on a fourth batter who was just picked by lottery. 
I learned from Nagato and stood in the batter's box silently. 

I didn't swing at the first pitch. It was a strike. Now that was scary. That ball was fast. It basically 
sliced through the air and made a swishing noise. I had no idea what its speed was, but I guess 
it's faster than one could blink. In fact, the moment I felt the pitcher had thrown the ball out, the 
ball had already landed in the catcher's glove. Did Haruhi actually hit this sort of pitch? 

The second pitch. Whoa! The ball curved. Is this what they call a curveball? If I ignored it, it 
would be a ball, but I still swung at it. And so it ended with three consecutive strike outs, and 
both sides had to switch positions. 



You idiot! 


When our opponents went to their dugout to take a break, Haruhi yelled furiously at the left field 
and threw her glove to the ground. 

This was too embarrassing. 


To be precise, our defense had more holes than you would find in a tropical savanna ant hill. 

The outfield defense was especially ridiculous. It was perfectly normal for our right fielder 
Asahina-san and my sister the left fielder to not catch any balls at all, this I could tell from their 
pre-match warm ups. So when the ball flew to the right field, it had to be retrieved by me the 
second baseman; when it flew to the left field, Taniguchi the short stop would have to run for his 
life to retrieve the ball. Whenever Asahina-san sees the ball flying towards her, she would kneel 
down and cover her head with her glove, so don't expect her to do any defending. As for my 
sister, she would chase the ball happily, but the ball would always land three feet away from 
where she was standing, so she wasn't of much help either. 

Nagato the center fielder was flawless when catching the ball, but she only reacted to those that 
flew within her defensive perimeters, and her reactions were just dead slow. If a line drive flew 
past her, our opponent would have scored a run already. 

Might as well hurry up and lose so we can go home already! That wouldn't be too bad. 

"C'mon! Bring it on!" 

Only Haruhi walked enthusiastically towards the pitcher's mound. The gloves, shin guards and 
chest protector for our catcher Koizumi were of course all borrowed. 

Our opponent's first batter bowed to the organizers, then headed to the batter's box. 

Haruhi slung her arm and made her first pitch. 

Strike. 

It was a very good strike, be it the angle, speed or control of the ball. The ball landed right in the 
center of the strike zone. The strike had so much power that the batter didn't even have a chance 
to swing his bat. 

Of course, the SOS Brigade members, including myself, weren't surprised by this. If this girl 
were suddenly called up to the Japanese National Soccer Team, I think we won't be too shocked 
about it. There was nothing which was impossible for Haruhi. 



It wasn't that simple for the opponent's first batter, though. He couldn't swing his bat for two 
consecutive strikes, and only managed to react for the third pitch, but he still struck out. It seems 
like one of those change up balls that curves slightly when entering the strike zone, it was as 
unpredictable as Haruhi's personality. 



Haruhi slung her arm and made her first pitch. 


The second batter listened to the suggestions of the first batter, who never managed a hit, and 
tried to bunt. Yet he hit the ball outside the foul line twice and missed the third pitch, so he was 
struck out as well. 

Seeing how the situation was beginning to change, even I was feeling uneasy. Both teams 
weren't going to drag on like this till the last inning, were they? As expected from their clean-up 
man, the third batter made a direct hit on Haruhi's powerful fastball. If you keep pitching 
fastballs, it's only a matter of time before it gets hit. 

The ball flew way past the head of Nagato, who remain rooted there, and disappeared into the 
distance. With the look of Medea who had just been betrayed by Jason, Haruhi looked intently at 
the third batter who had just hit a home run. 


Anyway, we were now one run behind as a result. 



The fourth batter managed to hit a double; while the fifth batter took advantage of an error from 
Kunikida, and our opponents ended up taking the first and third; the sixth batter scored a second 
run by hitting the ball out into the right field; the seventh batter hit the ball towards third base, 
the ball was picked up and quickly thrown home by Tsuruya-san, tagging the runner out. This 
ended the first inning. 

At the end of the first inning, the score was 2-0. 1 never thought we would have fought this 
valiantly, though it'll give me more of a headache. Just hurry up and let them score ten runs so 
we can go home already! 


At the start of the second inning, our fifth to seventh batters - my sister, Koizumi and Kunikida - 
were all struck out consecutively, we have already entered the second half of the inning before 
we could even draw our breath. 

Our opponent seems to have identified the outfield as our main weakness, and it became obvious 
that they were targeting the ball towards that area. Every time Taniguchi and I would run 
frantically towards the outfield, trying to catch the ball, but our success rate was about 10%, and 
we were simply exhausted. Oh well, in order to relieve Asahina-san of her pain, running this 
much was a small price to pay. Since Asahina-san still looked so cute even when being scared 
senseless. 

And so our opponent scored five runs in this inning. The score was now 7-0. Just three more runs 
and it'll be over. We should be able to wrap things up by the next inning, I guess. 


First half of the third inning. Our turn for offense. 

Tsuruya-san, who tied her long hair behind her head, kept hitting the ball foul. She seems like a 
very energetic person, but in the end she hit a ball that ended up landing in the catcher's glove. 
She tapped her helmet with the bat and said, 

"Sure is hard! Just hitting the ball alone was already tough." 

Haruhi frowned and seemed to be in deep thought. Whatever she's thinking, it wasn't going to be 
good. 

"Hmm, looks like we'll have to use that " 


Haruhi murmured and slowly walked to the umpire and said, "Time out! 



She then grabbed Asahina-san, who was sitting obediently with a loudspeaker in her hand, by the 
neck, 

"Kyaa!" 

Haruhi dragged the slim figure in the track suit and disappeared behind the bench area. She and 
Asahina-san were each carrying a large sports bag, I would soon find out what those bags 
contained. 

"W,wait Suzumiya-san! Nooo " 

Besides from Asahina-san's cute screams, the wind blew across the rough voice of Haruhi yelling 
away, 

"Hurry up and take it off! Now put this on!" 

Here we go again. 

And so, when Asahina-san reappeared, she was dressed in the most appropriate attire for this 
situation. She wore a sleeveless shirt with bright blue and white colors, coupled with a mini-skirt, 
she even had two yellow pompoms. 

Such an impeccable cheerleader. Where did she get this costume from? What a mystery. 

"She looks gorgeous..." 

Kunikida said enjoyably. 

"Mikuru, can I take some pictures of you like that?" 

Tsuruya-san giggled and took out her digital camera phone. 

By the way, Haruhi was also dressed as a cheerleader. Wouldn't it be fine if only she were to 

wear that I didn't think like that then. To be honest, Asahina-san just looked too cute in that 

cheerleader costume, though she'd look cute in anything. 

"I wonder if you'll look better with a ponytail?" 

Haruhi caressed Asahina-san's hair and attempted to tie her hair behind the back of her head. 
When she noticed that I was watching, she scowled her mouth like a duck's beak and gave up 
tying the hair. 

"Then, let's get to work!" 


Eh? W,w,what do we do? 



We do this! 


Haruhi went behind Asahina-san and lifted her weak, pale arms, then began to swing then up and 
down. Such unbelievable choreography. Haruhi yelled loudly by Asahina-san's ear, "Scream! 
Scream loudly!" 

"Wah Everyone, please do you best and score a run! Everyone Do your best!" 

Asahina-san was forced to yell in such a pretentious way. At least Taniguchi was fired up by 
this, as he swung the bat with vigor, preparing to get on base. However, I have a feeling no 
matter how hard he tries, he's never going to hit the opponent's pitches. 

As expected, Taniguchi returned dejected to the bench in no time. 

"Man, this is hard." 

And so, the batters position was rotated and Haruhi once again went to the batting zone. 

In that cheerleader costume of hers. 


It was quite a feast for the eyes when Haruhi and Asahina-san once dressed up as bunny girls, 
and right now their costumes were just as distracting. 

Our opponents already didn't know where to look. Asahina-san was perfect in every way; while 
besides her personality, Haruhi was equally flawless - in both her looks and her figure. 

Haruhi took full advantage of the opponent pitcher's error and made a hit, striking the ball 
towards the center field past the second base. During the confusion of the opponent's trying to 
scramble the ball back infield, she had already taken third base. The third baseman's eyes were 
looking in a suspicious angle when Haruhi slid towards the third base. 

The next batter was a pretty cheerleader girl whose charms far surpass Haruhi's. Asahina-san 
held the bat with trepidation. Under the watchful glare of many guys (myself included), her face 
blushed furiously red in embarrassment. Such a great scene. 

The pitcher was so distracted he could only throw a weak pitch, but Asahina-san still didn't 
swing her bat. The opponent even deliberately threw an easy-to-hit curveball. 

"Yah!" 

Her eyes were shut when she swung her bat, so a ball that could have been easily hit wasn't even 
scratched at all. 



And so, Asahina-san was once again one pitch away from being struck out. At this moment, 
Haruhi began swinging her arms while standing on the third base. What was she doing? 

"She seems to be making a signal." 

Koizumi came and explained. 

"Did we even have signals to begin with?" 

"No. But from this situation, I can more or less imagine Suzumiya-san would resort to using 
signals. She's probably trying to call for a squeeze." 

"Signing for a squeeze with two outs? Even a lame duck coach can do better than that." 

"I deduce that she probably believes the chances of Asahina-san scoring a run is near zero, so she 
decided to employ a squeeze play, which would result in the infielders making an error; or 
perhaps if Asahina-san does manage to hit the ball, she might be able to do something as well?" 

"The thing is that our opponent has figured that out already." 

The infielders have all gone into defensive positions and were prepared. What signals was 
Haruhi making? It just looked like she was signaling to hit the ball. 

In the end, the squeeze play failed miserably. Asahina-san didn't even know what squeeze play 
was, so she could only tilt her head and wonder what Haruhi's signals meant. She was eventually 
struck out. 

Asahina-san lowered her head and returned to the bench, with the look of a puppy who had just 
enraged her master. Haruhi called her over, 

"Mikuru-chan, come over here, and close your jaws tightly." 

"Wah — - " 

Haruhi pinched hardly the sides of Asahina-san's trembling cheeks with both her hands, 

"This is your punishment! Let everyone see that cute face of yours." 

"Ah Ah " 

"Are you an idiot?" 

I knocked on Haruhi's head with my loudspeaker. 

"It's your fault for making such funny signals. Why don't you go steal home plate yourself, you 
moron?" 



Suddenly... 

Beep beep beep! Koizumi took out a cell phone from his track suit pocket, and frowned after 
looking at the LCD screen. 

Asahina-san looked shocked and pressed her left ear with her hand while looking off into the 
distance. 

Nagato turned and looked vertically upwards into the sky. 


When everyone else went to their defensive positions, Koizumi called me back. 

"Something's come up." 

I didn't want to know, but I'll hear what you have to say. 

"A Sealed Dimension has appeared. Probably the largest we've ever seen, and it's expanding at a 
very rapid rate. " 

Sealed Dimension. 

A gray world which I was too familiar with. How could I forget? Thanks to being trapped in that 
gloomy dimension, I now have to carry a mental scar for the rest of my life. 

Koizumi continued to smile, 

"That's how it is. Sealed Dimensions are created as a result of the pressure being subconsciously 
emitted by Suzumiya-san. Right now Suzumiya-san is very frustrated, which explains the 
appearance of one right now. Unless her mood improves, this Sealed Dimension is going to keep 
expanding, and the 'Avatars' which you're so familiar with will wreak havoc on everything." 

" You're saying Haruhi's getting moody because the team's losing? She can get so frustrated 

as to create such a retarded dimension?" 


Seems to be the case. 




£1 

Koizumi took out a cell phone... Asahina-san looked shocked and pressed her left ear with her hand... 
Nagato turned and looked vertically upwards into the sky. 

"She's so full of it!" 

Koizumi made no comment but simply smiled at me. I sighed and said, 

"This is so annoying." 

Koizumi looked at me and said, 

"What's the point in saying this now? You sound as though it has nothing to do with you. This is 
a serious incident, and you have a lot to do with it. Weren't our positions decided through 
lottery?" 

"It was decided through lottery, so what?" 

"And you were chosen as the clean-up." 

"I don't feel glad at all with that." 

"Suzumiya-san wouldn't care less about whether you felt glad or pressurized by it. The thing is 
that you were chosen as the clean-up." 

"Can you please explain in a language I can understand?" 

"Simple. Because this is what Suzumiya-san wishes, that's why you were chosen as the fourth 
batter. This is not coincidental. She wishes for you to perform the role of the clean-up, but right 
now she is very disappointed that you have failed to live up to her expectations." 

"Well, sorry about that." 

"Hmm, I'm troubled by it as well. At this rate, Suzumiya-san's mood would continue to 
deteriorate, and the Sealed Dimension would continue to expand," 



Then what should I do? 


"Do well in the game. If possible, make a long hit; or better still, a home run, especially those 
that fly very far off. How about scoring a very long home run, and even smashing the score 
board at the far side of the field?" 

"Don't be ridiculous. I only score home runs in video games. How am I supposed to make such 
powerful swings?" 

"We all sincerely hope that you can do it." 

No matter how much you hope, I'm neither a god nor an elf, how was I going to find a solution? 

"Then try your best to prevent the opponent from ending the game within this inning. (In this 
tournament, when the score difference is ten runs, the game would end.) If the game ends here, 
then it'll be the end for the world as well. No matter what, we must limit their score in this half to 
within two runs." 

Koizumi said in a very serious manner which didn't fit in with this atmosphere. 


The second half of the third inning began. Haruhi walked towards the pitcher's mound in her 
cheerleader costume. Asahina-san also wore her cheerleader costume and went to the right field. 

Haruhi revealed her arms and legs without hesitation, and ignored any runners on base while still 
throwing her pitches from the set. 

The first batter struck the ball and it flew right in front of Nagato's face. She made the out, but 
she didn't even look at the fly ball hit by the second batter. When the ball rolled from the left 
field into the center field, he had already run to third base. Haruhi's pitches were still full of 
power, but as she kept throwing fastballs, they were bound to get hit. As expected from the 
defending champions, they then scored two runs by making two hits and taking advantage of an 
error from Kunikida. The situation was now becoming critical. There were already runners 
standing on first and second base. Just one more run and this game would have to end forcefully, 
and no one will know what will happen to this world. 

Whack! The white ball flew high and drifted towards the right field. Asahina-san stood at where 
the ball would land, and curled herself in fear. There was no time to think, I ran with my life for 
the umpteenth time towards the right wing. I've gotta get that ball! 

I leapt and caught the ball. The ball barely went in through the tip of the glove. 


Argh! 



I then quickly threw the ball with all my force to Taniguchi, who was standing by at second base. 
The two runners thought this was going to be a long distance hit and were already going. 
Taniguchi quickly stepped on second. Double play! 

Phew, we somehow managed to survive this. How exhausting. 

"Nice play!" 

I embraced the praising look of Asahina-san, while Taniguchi, Kunikida, my sister and Tsuruya- 
san all mobbed my head with their gloves. I gave them a V-sign while looking at Haruhi's 
reaction, and saw her carrying a troubled expression as she looked at the score board (which was 
basically a movable white board). 

I sat on the bench and covered my face with a towel. Koizumi now walked towards me, 
"Continuing where we left off," 

I really didn't want to hear this. 

"There is a solution to this. When you and Suzumiya-san went to that world, how did you 
manage to return?" 

Like I said, stop making me think of that again. 

"If you use that method you used back then, we might be able to improve the situation." 

"I refuse." 

Heh heh heh Koizumi giggled. Now that laughing noise of his sure pissed me off. 

"I knew you would say that. Then how about this? It'll be fine as long as we win this game. I've 
already thought of a good idea, it should be able to work, since she shares a common interest 
with us." 

Koizumi grinned softly and headed towards Nagato, who was standing in the white on-deck 
circle staring blankly into the distance. He then mumbled something to the side of Nagato's ear, 
whose short hair seemed to wave slightly. Suddenly, Nagato turned her head and looked at me 
with her emotionless eyes. 

Does that mean she agreed to it? She nodded her head like a puppet whose strings had just 
snapped, and walked in strides towards the Batter's box. 

I turned my gaze leftwards and saw Asahina-san staring at Nagato, 


Nagato-san She's finally. 



She said with a pale expression, which made me concerned, 

"What's she doing?" 

"Nagato-san seems to be chanting incantations." 

"Incantations? What the hell's that?" 

"Um That's classified information." 

I'm sorry. Asahina-san gestured as she lowered her head. That's fine, it can't be helped if it's 
classified information. Sigh, looks like that surreal stuff was about to happen again. 

I had a firsthand experience with Nagato's incantations. 


It was a very hot May evening, if Nagato hadn't barged into the classroom that day, I would now 
be taking a long nap in my grave. At that time Nagato was also chanting something very quickly, 
and defeated the person who was trying to kill me. Ah yes, Nagato was still wearing glasses back 
then. 

What was she trying to do this time? 

Then I understood at once. 

The bat swung, it was a home run. 

Nagato seemed to have just casually swung the bat, and struck the center of the pitcher's fastball. 
The ball flew high up above the field, and finally disappeared at the back of the wall. 

I turned my gaze towards my teammates. Koizumi grinned elegantly and nodded to me; Asahina- 
san looked a bit stiff, but wasn't surprised; while my sister and Tsuruya-san simply exclaimed, 
"Wow " 

The others simply dropped their jaws and went into shock. Of course, it was the same for our 
opponents. 

Haruhi leapt joyously towards the home plate and tapped on the helmet of Nagato, who had just 
circled all the bases with a blank expression. 


That was amazing! Where'd you get so much power from? 



Haruhi pulled and twisted Nagato's tiny arms excitedly. Nagato still remained expressionless and 
allowed Haruhi to have her way. 

A while later, Nagato walked towards the bench and handed the bat to me. 

"This..." She pointed to the old baseball bat and said, "Alteration in boost attribute data." 

"What's that mean?" I asked. Nagato looked at me for some time and said, 

"Homing mode." 

She only said those words and walked back to the bench and sat at the corner, picking up a very 
thick book lying by the side and began to read it. 

The score was now 9-1. It was the first half of the fourth inning. Looks like this'll be the last 
inning. 


The opposing pitcher still hasn't recovered from the previous shock, but still managed to throw a 
good fastball towards me. 

Now I finally understood the meaning of Nagato's words. 

"Whoa!" 

The bat moved on its own, my arms and shoulders were simply dragged along by it. Whack! 

I originally thought I merely scratched the ball, but I never would have imagined that the ball 
would have rode the wind and flew far up, it flew over the wall and lawn, and landed on the 
baseball field next door. It was a home run. I widened my jaw. 

Homing mode was really incredible 

I threw away the bat, which was now installed with a automatic homing device and acceleration 
booster, and began to run. 

As I passed second base I turned to look at the bench. Haruhi's hands were raised up and when 
our eyes met, she quickly turned away. You ought to celebrate wildly like Tsuruya-san and my 
sister! I saw Taniguchi and Kunikida looking shocked once again, while Asahina-san and 
Koizumi remained speechless, and our opponents simply exchanged glances with each other. 


I felt really sorry for them, but the shock suffered by our opponents refused to wear out. 



Next, my sister walked shakily towards the batter's box. As the helmet was too big for her, nearly 
half of her face was covered up, so I can't really blame her for not being able to maintain her 
balance. This trump card I specifically kept just for losing now swung her bat hitting the pitcher's 
ball, and whacked the ball over the fence. In other words, she too has hit a home run. 

No matter how crazy things get, there was a limit to ridiculousness. For an 1 1 -year-old fifth 
grade schoolgirl to whack a ball, which was thrown by a college student at the speed of 130 km/h 
(according to my instincts), over the fence - in reality it was just plain impossible. 

"That's amazing!" 

Haruhi never doubted this twisted reality one little bit. She took my sister's hand and danced 
wildly with her and smiled merrily, 

"That's an incredible talent! You have a bright future ahead! You'll be in the Baseball League in 
no time!" 

My sister let Haruhi swing her around madly while screaming joyously. 

How should I say this? Hmm, the score was now 9-3. 


I was now sitting on the bench and wrapping my head with my hands. 

Our home run onslaught continued. The score was now 9-7. Seven continuous home runs in one 
inning, I guess we've set a new tournament record. 

After hitting a blast, Taniguchi ran back to the bench saying, 

"I've decided to join the Baseball Team. I never knew I had it in me, I feel that entering Koushien 
is no longer a dream. I even felt that it was the bat itself that hit the ball!" 

Next to him, Kunikida also naively said, "Yeah, that's true!" 

They sure looked excited, while Tsuruya-san slapped the shoulder of Asahina-san, who suddenly 
felt nervous for no reason, while laughing loudly. I'm glad the three of them are so simple 
minded. 

"Now's the time to really show them our colors!" 


Haruhi lifted the bat and said. Shouldn't this be the pitcher's line? 



I was beginning to grow tired of the whacking noises, as the balls kept flying towards the 
scoreboard and bouncing off of it. 


It was now 9-8. Until now, the opponent has switched three pitchers. I'm sure they didn't want 
my sympathy, but I still decided to pity them. Poor guys. 

The batting order rotated once again, and Asahina-san, Nagato and I all made consecutive home 

runs. Finally the score was reversed 9-11 in our favor. Eleven consecutive home runs I began 

to think that this needs to be stopped quickly, since I've discovered that our opponents weren't 
looking at us, instead their gazes were concentrated on this baseball bat. Could they have 
mistaken this for some magic bat? Though it was natural for them to think that way. 

Before handing the bat to my sister the next batter, I brought Nagato, who was reading her book 
at the corner of the bench, out for a talk. 

"This is enough." 

I said. It was rare to see Nagato's expressionless eyes blinking many times, she normally blinks 
every ten seconds or so. 

"I see." 

She replied, then placed her tiny fingers over the tip of the bat I was holding and quickly chanted 
something. I couldn't hear what was being said, but even if I did, I wouldn't be able to understand 
anyway. 

After quickly withdrawing her fingers from the bat, Nagato said nothing and quietly returned to 
her position on the bench and opened her book again. 

Argh! 


When my sister, Koizumi and Kunikida went up to strike again, it was as though their previous 
home runs never happened, as they all missed the ball and were all struck out consecutively. In 
fact, this was all due to cheating through advanced technology. 

I forgot to mention, there's a time limit of ninety minutes for the games in this tournament, this 
rule was inevitable if the organizers wanted to complete all the matches within the day. And so, 
there would be no next inning for this game. We'll win this game if it ends at the second half of 
the fourth inning. 


Must we really win this? 



"We have to," Koizumi said, "My colleagues have called, they say thanks to our efforts, the 
Sealed Dimension seems to have ceased expanding. Though it may have stopped growing, the 
'Avatars' are still there, so we still need to think of an idea to clean up this mess. But it's 
definitely good news that the Sealed Dimension has stopped expanding," 

However, if our opponents managed to turn things around, we would all meet our Waterloo. I 
was not prepared to use my imagination to guess what mood Haruhi will be in then. 

"That's why I have a suggestion," 

Koizumi revealed his white teeth, they were so bright I would recommend him to do a 
toothbrush commercial, and whispered his suggestion into my ear. 

"Are you serious?" 

"I'm very serious. If we are to keep the loss in runs at a minimum, this is the only way. 

I have to exclaim this once again - Argh! 


We requested the umpire to allow us to make changes to our fielding lineup. 

Nagato would replace Koizumi as the catcher, Koizumi would move to the center field, while I 
swapped positions with Haruhi and was now standing on the pitcher's mound. 

When Koizumi asked Haruhi to relinquish her pitcher's position, she pouted for a while until she 
realized that I would be replacing her, to which she gave me a complicated look and said, 

" Well, all right then. But if your pitches get hit, you'll have to treat everyone for lunch!" 

She said while withdrawing to her position on second base. 

Nagato simply stood there looking dazed, so Koizumi and I had to help her put on her chest 
protector and shin guards. Was it really appropriate for someone without any emotional upheaval 
to play the catcher? 

Nagato walked in strides towards the back of the home plate and knelt down. 

And so, the match resumed. As we were running out of time, I didn't even have time to warm up 
my pitching skills. Looks like I'll have to face my first time ever as a pitcher head on with such 
short notice. 


Might as well pitch and see what happens. 



Swoosh! 


The ball which I spent all my strength pitching landed into Nagato's glove without any force. 

Bad ball. 

"Be serious!" 

The one yelling wildly was Haruhi. I'm always dead serious. This time I decided to try a 
curveball. 

Second pitch. I really wish my opponents could be fooled by me once in a while, but to no avail. 
The bat swerved hardly towards my powerless ball. It's over. My pitch was just not good 
enough 

"Strike one!" 

The umpire announced loudly. The batter completely missed the ball. A strike was inevitable, yet 
the batter looked at Nagato's glove in disbelief. 

I understood how he felt. His reaction was expected, as my weak pitch suddenly lowered its 
flight path by about thirty centimeters just before it was hit by the bat, no one was going to 
believe that just hearing it. 


Nagato remained squatted and only moved her fingers slightly to send the ball back to me. I 
received the wobbling ball, then went into my pitching stance again. 

No matter how many times I pitched, I could only manage a semi-straight ball. The third pitch 
was wide off the mark - it was supposed to be like that, but after flying for a few yards the ball 
corrected its route and bent sharply, totally ignoring the laws of inertia, gravity and 
aerodynamics. It even accelerated as it charged into the catcher's glove. 

Smack! Nagato's frail body shook a little bit. 

The batter now widened his eyes, even the umpire was speechless for a moment. After a while, 
he announced not quite so confidently, 

"Strike two!" 

This was getting out of hand, hurry up and finish this! 

I was already beginning to slack off as I pitched wildly without even aiming or putting any 
strength into the pitch. Yet, if the batter didn't swing his bat, my pitches would always end up as 
a strike; if he attempted to swing the bat, he would end up missing the ball without even brushing 
its surface. 



The secret lies with Nagato making her incantations every time I pitched. As this secret was so 
big, not even I knew how it works exactly. Perhaps she did the same thing to the bat as when she 
saved my life and made the classroom reappear, altering its data. 

Thanks to this, I now felt like pitching towards an electric fan. Today's MVP has got to be 
Nagato Yuki. 

Very soon our opponent suffered two strike outs, and their third batter was now one strike away 
from being struck out as well. Was it okay for me to play such a decisive character so easily? I'm 
so sorry, Kamigahara Pirates. 

I neither exerted a lot of force, nor did I made any special considerations as I threw my final 
pitch towards the pale-faced batter. 

The ball changed course and flew towards the strike zone. The batter swung his bat with all his 
might. The ball changed direction again and became a rising fastball. The bat swerved around 
again, leaving a residual image in the air. Three strike outs. Phew, it's finally over Or not. 


The ball kept bouncing towards the netting behind the catcher. Maybe the pitch was too smooth 
and went slightly out of control after bending. It tapped off Nagato's glove, and the magic ball 
(according to me anyway) bounced up like a foul ball behind home plate and rolled at an 
impossible angle. 

A wild pitch. 

The batter took this golden opportunity and sprinted quickly. Yet Nagato still held her glove and 
remain fixed on her position squatting aimlessly. 

"Nagato! Go pick up the ball!" 

Nagato looked expressionlessly at me giving a command, and she slowly stood up and walked 
towards the rolling ball. The batter has stepped on first base and was about to get into second 
base. 

"Hurry!" 

Haruhi stood at second base waving her glove frantically. 

Nagato finally caught up with the ball and picked up the soft baseball as though she were 
examining a turtle egg, and turned to look at me. 


Second base! 



I pointed to the direction behind me, where Haruhi was yelling. Nagato nodded "slightly" at me 
in centimeters 


Swoosh! A white beam flashed past my head, taking a few strands of my hair. I then saw the 
glove fly off from Haruhi's hand. The ball remained squeezed inside the glove as it flew towards 
center field. I then realized Nagato had merely moved her wrist a little when she threw that. 

After seeing the glove vanish suddenly from her hand, Haruhi widened her eyes. As for the 
batter, perhaps the sight was just too horrifying for him, he was lying on all fours before he 
reached second base. 

Koizumi the center fielder picked up the glove and took out the ball, then walked over carrying 
that universal smile of his. He then touched the ball on the batter, while apologizing at the same 
time, 

"I'm really sorry. We just happen to be quite a disorganized group," 

Don't include me in that illogical group as well. I thought as I sighed deeply. 

The game was over. 


The players of the Kamigahara Pirates all broke into tears. I wasn't sure what was going on, 
maybe they were worried about being berated by their team's graduated seniors? Or perhaps they 
were just gutted at losing to what was mostly a female rag-tag high school squad that even has an 
elementary schoolgirl in it? Or maybe it's even both? 

On the other hand, without even standing in the shoes of the vanquished, Haruhi looked 
absolutely delighted. She carried a bright smile like the one she had when deciding to create the 
SOS Brigade and said, 

"We'll go on all the way, and then march into the Summer Koushien! Being the national 
champion is no longer a dream!" 

She shouted seriously. Only Taniguchi cheered with her. I wasn't about to break any more sweat, 
and I'm sure the High School Baseball Federation must be feeling the same. 

"Great work," 

Koizumi suddenly appeared by my side. "Speaking of which, what should we do next? Continue 
with the second game?" 



I shook my head and said, "To sum it up, if we lose again, Haruhi's gonna be unhappy, right? 
That also means we'll have to keep on winning, which means we would require help from 
Nagato's magic. It's going to become bothersome if we keep ignoring the laws of physics. Let's 
forfeit!" 

"I thought so as well. In fact, I think I'd better go help my colleagues. In order to eliminate the 
Sealed Dimension, they're still short of the people required to beat up the 'Avatars.'" 

"Say hi to those blue guys for me." 

"I will. By the way, I've learned from this matter that we must not let Suzumiya-san get bored 
again. We should seriously consider this fact." 

"Well, I'm counting on you." Koizumi said, then went to the organizers to request a forfeit. 

He keeps stuffing me with these troublesome tasks with such a straight face, I really can't stand 
him anymore. 

I went to tap Haruhi on the back as she was forcefully making Asahina-san dance crazily with 
her, 

"What? You want to dance as well?" 

"I have something to tell you." 

I brought Haruhi to the outside of the field, I never thought she would obediently follow though. 

"Look at them." I pointed to the Kamigahara Pirates players, who were all sitting dejectedly on 
the bench. "Don't you think they deserve some pity?" 

"What for?" 

"I believe that they have gone through lots of blood and sweat just to train hard for this day. 
They have been winners for four consecutive years, I'm sure they're feeling a lot of pressure 
within them." 

"So?" 

"They've probably got bench warmers crying as well. Look at that guy with the marine crew-cut 
standing behind the side netting, that's the disappointment I'm talking about. Don't you find that 
sad? He'll probably never get a chance to come on the field again." 

"And so?" 


So let's forfeit! 



I said it matter-of-factly. 

"You've probably played enough as well right? I don't feel like playing anymore, honestly. I'd 
rather we all have lunch and chat together. Frankly speaking, my limbs are shaking from 
exhaustion now." 

It was true. Because I was running between infield and outfield all the time, I was exhausted 
physically and mentally as well. 

From being pleased with herself, Haruhi now pouted like Donald Duck and stared quietly at me 
with her eyes. Just as I was about to lose my breath 

"You're okay with that?" 

Yup. Asahina-san and Koizumi, maybe even Nagato were feeling the same way as well. My 
sister has been practicing with her bat swings ever since the beginning, but if you give her a 
piece of candy, she'll immediately throw away the bat. 

"Hmph." 

Haruhi looked at me, then looked at the baseball field. After thinking for a while, or maybe she 
was pretending to think for a while, she smiled pleasantly at me, 

"All right then, I'm getting hungry anyway, let's have lunch! I never thought baseball would be 
such a simple sport, we won too easily!" 

Is that so? 

I didn't argue with her, and merely shrugged my shoulders. 


When I proposed to withdraw in favor of them progressing to the next round, the opposing 
team's captain wept while thanking us gratefully. I felt so guilty seeing him like that, since we 
had used some very absurd cheating in order to steal this victory. 




£3 

"They've probably got bench warmers crying as well. Look at that guy with the marine crew-cut standing 
behind the side netting, that's the disappointment I'm talking about. Don't you find that sad?" 

As I was about to leave quickly, the captain called me back, and whispered quietly into my ear, 

"Say, how much are you willing to sell that bat of yours for?" 


And so, besides Koizumi, we were now occupying the corner of a restaurant as we munched 
away at our food. 

My sister has already got herself entangled with Haruhi and Asahina-san, as she sat between the 
two of them while eating her hamburger by picking it up with her knife haphazardously; while 
Taniguchi and Kunikida were seriously discussing about joining the Baseball Team. Sigh, I'd 
best leave them alone. Meanwhile, Tsuruya-san has now turned her attention towards Nagato, 
"So you're Nagato Yuki-chan? Mikuru tells me a lot about you." Yet her silent under classman 
paid no heed to Tsuruya-san and concentrated on munching her club sandwich. 

As though she was about to make an important speech, Haruhi announced to everyone that I 
would be paying. I have never quite understood why Haruhi would have such wild ideas. I've 
have never really managed to grasp how her mind works, so I'm not exactly surprised at what's 
happening every day. I couldn't even be bothered to protest, as it was too troublesome. That's not 
all, I even felt relaxed as though a storm had finally subsided. 

All of this was because a substantial amount of extra money appeared mysteriously in my 
pocket. 


I sincerely pray for the best for the Kamigahara Pirates. 


A few days later. 


After school, we gathered as usual in a room inside the clubs complex, and returned to our 
previous lifestyle, as though the baseball tournament a few days ago never happened. 

I sipped the brown rice tea Asahina-san, now dressed in her maid costume, brewed for me, while 
playing Othello with Koizumi. Nagato sat beside us reading her philosophy book that she 
borrowed from the library, which was as thick as a dictionary. By the way, Asahina-san wore 
today's costume as per our request. After all, doesn't it just feel better to be served by a maid than 
by a nurse? Asahina-san held the tray tightly and watched pleasantly at our battle on the board. 

This tranquility was no different from before. 

And the one destroying this peacefulness, drowning it in the wild torrents of time would always 
be Suzumiya Haruhi. 

"Sorry, I'm late!" 

Haruhi apologized insincerely while creeping in like a winter drift. 

The sparkling grin that she wears on her face just gives me the creeps. For some reason, every 
time she smiles like that, I would sense a scheme from her that would make me even more 
exhausted physically and mentally. What an incredible world. 

Just as I expected, Haruhi asked ambiguously, "Which is better?" 

I placed down my black Othello piece on the board, and after flipping over two of Koizumi's 
white pieces, I said, 

"What do you mean which?" 

"These." 

I reluctantly received two pieces of paper Haruhi handed me. 

Not flyers again. I took a quick glance at both sheets. One was a notice for a grass-field soccer 
tournament, while the other was one for a grass-field American football tournament. I secretly 
cursed the person who took the time to print these flyers from the bottom of my heart. 

"Actually, I never wanted to join the baseball tournament, but had wanted to choose from these 
two instead, but the baseball one was held earlier. So Kyon, which do you think is better?" 

With a gloomy heart, I slowly moved my gaze across the club room. Koizumi made a small 
grimace and toyed with the Othello piece in his finger; Asahina-san shook her head constantly, 



her face nearly in tears, while Nagato simply continued to read her book, occasionally flipping 
the pages with her fingers. 

"Oh yeah, how many people do we need for a soccer or American football team? Would the 
people from the baseball tournament be enough?" 

I looked at Haruhi's beaming smile and wondered, "Which game requires fewer players?" 


Bamboo Leaf Rhapsody 

Bamboo Leaf Rhapsody 


The month of May was already hot enough, but July was just unbearable. The humidity was even 
worse, raising my unhappiness index to record high levels. There was no chance a cheap high 
school building like ours would be installed with such high class devices like air conditioning. 
The sizzling 1-5 classroom was like the waiting room for the bus to hell. I firmly believed the 
architect had no concept of what "comfortable living environment" meant. 

To make things worse, this week was the first week of the July term-end exams, the joyfulness of 
my heart had gone on to linger around Brazil, not wanting to come back yet. 

My mid-term exam results were already disastrous, so I can't imagine my term-end exam would 
ever have a satisfying result. This was most likely due to me spending too much time with the 
SOS Brigade, and not being able to concentrate on my studies as a result. I didn't want to have 
anything to do with that, but ever since spring this year, whenever Haruhi makes a suggestion, I 
would mysteriously follow her around. This has become part of my daily life, and I'm beginning 
to hate myself for getting used to this life. 

It was after school when the sun shone in from the west into the classroom. The girl sitting 
behind me poked my back with her mechanical pencil. 

"Do you know what day is today?" 

Suzumiya Haruhi asked me with the delightful look of a kid on Christmas Eve. Whenever she 
reveals such a detailed expression, it was the sign that she was probably up to something 
mischievous. I pretended to think for about three seconds, and then said, 


Your birthday? 


No! 


"Asahina-san's birthday." 

"No~~pe!" 

"Koizumi's or Nagato's birthday." 

"How should I know when their birthdays are!?" 

"By the way, my birthday's on " 

"Who cares about that? You really don't know what an important day this is?" 

No matter how important you say it is, it's still a very hot, normal day for me. 

"Tell me, what's the date today?" 

"July 7th I don't really want to think about it, but you're not thinking of the Tanabata festival, 

are you?" 

"Of course I am! It's the Tanabata festival! You ought to remember if you even call yourself a 
Japanese." 

This festival actually originated from China. And according to the Chinese calendar, Tanabata 
should be next month. 

Haruhi held the mechanical pencil and waved it in front of my face, 

"Asia ranges from the Red Sea all the way to here." 

What kind of geographical concept is that? 

"Don't they group all those places together for the World Cup Qualifiers? It's just like July and 
August, they're both summer months." 

Oh, really? 

"Whatever. Anyway we've got to hold a Tanabata activity as well. I insist that this festival be 
treated seriously." 

I felt there were other things that deserved to be treated seriously more than this. But do you 
really have to tell me this? I don't really want to know what you're planning to do. 

"It'll be more fun if we hold it together. I hereby announce, we shall organize something big for 
Tanabata every year from this year onwards." 



Don't decide this on your own. 


Though I had said that, seeing that Haruhi was looking extraordinarily excited, I knew it was a 
stupid thing to try and refute her. 

"Wait for me in the club room! Don't go home on your own!" She even said. 

I didn't need her to tell me, I was planning to go to the club room anyway. Because there exists a 
person that I must at least look at once. Just that person alone. 


The other members were already gathered in the club room, which was located on the second 
floor of the arts clubhouse. Instead of calling it the club room the SOS Brigade rented from the 
Literature Club, it would be a better description to call it the de-facto headquarters that the 
brigade has forcibly occupied. 

"Oh, hello." 

The one who smiled and greeted me cheerfully was Asahina-san. She is the source of my heart's 
comfort, without her, the SOS Brigade would be as meaningless as curry rice without any curry 
cubes added. 

Since July, Asahina-san had changed to a summer maid costume. It was Haruhi that brought her 
the costume, I have absolutely no idea where she got all these colourful costumes from, while 

Asahina-san would always thank her intently, "Ah t.. .thank you very much." Today she was 

still the SOS Brigade's reserve maid, diligently brewing wheat tea for me. I sipped my tea and 
studied the room surroundings. 

"Hey, how're things going?" 

Koizumi looked up and greeted me. He was sitting in front of a chess board, which was laid on 
the table, and was holding a chess book on one hand while moving the chess pieces with the 
other. 


"Things have never been normal for me ever since I entered high school." 

Koizumi said he was tired of Othello, so decided to bring a chess board last week. But since I nor 
anyone else knew how to play chess, he had to play all on his own. He sure looks relaxed even 
though the exams are coming up. 



"Well, I'm not exactly that relaxed. I'm just making use of the time when I'm not studying to 
exercise my brain. For every problem solved, the blood circulation in the brain would flow 
faster. How about a game?" 

No thanks, I don't feel like exercising my already exhausted brain right now. If I think of any 
more weird stuff, then all those English words that I've spent a hard time memorizing will be 
ejected from my brain. 

"That's a pity. Maybe I should bring a Monopoly or Battleship board next time? Ah yes, how 
about something which all of us can play in? What do you have in mind?" 

Whatever, or maybe not. This isn't the Board Game Study Group, this is the SOS Brigade. By the 
way, I'm still mystified as to what activities the SOS Brigade are involved in. I wasn't sure what 
this mysterious club should be doing. Neither did I want to know, since not knowing anything 
enhances my chances of survival. So I was not motivated to do anything, that is my perfect logic. 

Koizumi shrugged his shoulders and went back to study his chess book. He picked up the black 
knight and moved it across the board. 

Sitting beside Koizumi, with less emotions than a robot was Nagato Yuki, who was busy reading 
her book. This silent and cold alien has shifted her interests from translated novels to original 
foreign-language novels. Right now she was reading a book, whose cover was scribbled in a 
language I could not recognize, like one of those old, thick magical spell books. I guessed it must 
be written in ancient Etruscan or some other strange language. I'm sure Nagato would have no 
problem reading those Linear A stone tablets. 

I pulled out a foldable chair and sat on it. Asahina-san quickly delivered a cup in front of me. 

Who would drink hot tea in such a hot day I have no intention of making a complaint which 

would incur the wrath of the heavens, and sipped my wheat tea with a sense of gratefulness. 
Hmm, it's boiling hot. 

Standing in the corner of the room was an electric fan which Haruhi nicked from somewhere. 

Yet its cooling effects were like pouring hot water over a pile of sizzling hot rocks at best. If you 
can nick, why can't you nick one of those vertical air coolers from the staff room instead? 

I turned my gaze away from the English textbook, whose pages flickered along the wind, arched 
my back on the foldable chair and stretched myself. 

Knowing very well that I'm not going to study when I go home, I had wanted to see if it would 
be better for me to study in the club room after school, but I realized that as long as I wasn't 
interested in something, then there's no way I could ever get it done, no matter where I was. It 
won't be good physically or mentally to force myself to do something I don't want to do. In other 
words, it is healthier if you don't force yourself. That's it, I'm not studying. I spun my automatic 
pen and closed my book, and decided to have a look at my mental stabilizer. The stabilizer which 
could sooth my cynical heart was now dressed in a maid costume and sitting opposite of me, 
working out her math problems. 



Looking intently at the questions, then scribbling away on the notebook; looking nonchalant 
while thinking, then suddenly writing like mad as though inspired by something - repeatedly 
performing these actions was none other than Asahina-san. 

I felt so much more relaxed just by looking. I suddenly felt a great sense of pity, as if throwing 
all my money, apart from my allowance, into a charity box in the street wasn't that much of a 
problem. Asahina-san didn't notice I was looking at her, and concentrated on studying her math. 
Her every action was enough to make me smile, in fact, I was already smiling. I felt like I was 
looking at a baby seal. 

Our eyes met. 

"Ah, w, what is it? D, did I do something strange?" 

Asahina-san frantically tidied herself all over, this made my heart melt even more. Just as I was 
about to sing my angelic praises 

"Ya-ho!" 

The door was violently opened, in rushed the rough girl walking in strides. 

"Sorry, I was late." 

There's no need to apologize, since no one was waiting for you. 

Haruhi appeared with a scene, carrying a piece of bamboo shoot on her shoulder. It was a long 
piece of live bamboo stick, with green bamboo leaves growing on it. What are you bringing this 
thing here for? To make a bamboo piggy-bank? 

Haruhi puffed her chest and replied, 

"Why, it's for hanging wishes, of course." 

Why? What for? 

"Nothing really, since I haven't hung these wishing bamboo sticks for a long time, so we might 
as well have one now, it's Tanabata today, after all!" 

As usual, this had no meaning whatsoever. 

"Where'd you get this?" 

"The bamboo forest at the back of the school." 


If I remember correctly, that's private territory, you bamboo thief. 



"Does it really matter? The bamboo roots are grown underground, they wouldn't be affected even 
if the top half of the shoot was cut off! It'd be an offense if I stole the whole shoot though. I got 
bitten by a few mosquitoes though, man it's so itchy. Mikuru-chan, can you put some anti-itching 
cream on my back?" 

"Yes, right away!" 

Asahina-san walked in small steps carrying a first aid kit, she looked just like a nurse trainee. 

She took out the ointment, then placed her hand into the collar of the sailor uniform and onto 
Haruhi's back. Haruhi bent forward and said, 

"A bit to the right too right. Yes, right there." 

Haruhi now looked like a kitty cat whose chin was being cuddled and blinked her eyes in 
relaxation. She placed the bamboo shoot by the window side, and calmly stood on the 
commander's desk, then took out a few pieces of tanzaku from somewhere and smiled very 
happily, 

"Now let's write down our wishes!" 

Nagato slowly lifted her head, Koizumi smiled cautiously, and Asahina-san widened her eyes. 
What was she up to this time? Haruhi leaped from the desk, her skirt fluttering with the wind as 
she said, 

"But there are conditions." 

"What conditions?" 

"Kyon, do you know who it is that grants people wishes on Tanabata?" 

"Isn't it Orihime and Hikoboshi?" 

"Correct. That's ten points. Then, do you know which stars Orihime and Hikoboshi are referring 
to?" 

"Nope." 

"Is it the Alpha Lyrae and Alpha Aquilae?" 

Koizumi answered quickly. 

"That's right! 85 points! That's the two stars! In other words, you must point the bamboo shoot 
carrying the tanzakus towards these two stars. Understood?" 


What are you trying to say? And just which category did the remaining 15 points belong to? 



Hell lieli. Haruhi suddenly gave a sly expression for no reason. 


"Let me explain. There's no way we could travel faster than the speed of light, according to the 
Special Theory of Relativity." 

Is there a meaning in telling me this all of a sudden? Haruhi took out a note cue from her skirt 
pocket and said loudly while reading along it, 

"Just to let you know. The distance between the Earth and the Alpha Lyrae and Alpha Aquila are 
twenty-five and sixteen light-years respectively. This means it would take twenty-five years and 
sixteen years to send a message from Earth to those stars. These are the facts - you get it?" 

Then what? Speaking of which, you actually bothered to research such information? 

"So this would equal the time required for a god to receive our wishes, right? We would have to 
wait for that long in order to get our wishes granted. So write down what you would wish for in 
twenty-five or sixteen years' time! Writing wishes like 'I wish to have a hunk of a boyfriend by 
next Christmas!' is not going to work, because the wish won't be granted on time!" 

Haruhi waved her arms greatly and continued to explain. 

"Hang on, if it takes twenty-odd years for the wish to reach there, wouldn't it take just as long for 
it to come back? Doesn't that mean we have to wait fifty years and thirty-two years respectively 
for our wishes to come true instead?" 

"Well, they're gods. Of course they're going to come up with something in order to help us. 
There's always a 50% off auction sale once every year!" 

Whenever it suited her, she would disregard the Laws of Relativity completely and throw them 
out of the window. 

"Now, does everyone understand what I'm saying? There are two types of tanzakus, one for the 
Alpha Lyrae, and the other for Alpha Aquilae. So please write down what you would wish for in 
twenty-five years and sixteen years' time." 

That's utterly ridiculous. Trying to pray for two wishes to be granted at the same time is just too 
shameless. Besides, there's no way we would know what we'll be doing in twenty-five years or 
sixteen years' time. How should we know what wishes we'll have by then now? The best one 
could do is wish that their retirement scheme or investment funds don't go wrong and are 
working properly by then, I guess. 

If Orihime and Hikoboshi were to hear such wishes, I'm sure they'll suffer headaches. They can 
only meet each other once every year, and yet they're being asked to grant such silly wishes. Why 
don 't you ask your own politicians to help instead? If I were them, I would definitely say that. 



However, as always, this girl was thinking up all sorts of nonsensical stuff. I can't help but 
wonder if there's a white hole inside her head, since her common sense seems to come from a 
different universe altogether. 

"Well, that's not entirely true." 

Koizumi actually sounded like he was defending Haruhi. But he said it very softly which only I 
could hear. 

"It's true that Suzumiya-san's speech and behaviour are unique, but judging from the present 
situation, it's clear that she knows what common sense is." 

Koizumi revealed his usual cheerful smile to me and continued, 

"If her thought patterns were abnormal, then this world wouldn't be so stable. If that were the 
case, this world would have already become a strange one dictated by very peculiar rules." 

"How do you know that?" I asked. 

"Suzumiya-san wishes that the whole world would change a bit, and she herself possesses the 
power to reconstruct the world from scratch. You should know very well." 

Of course I knew. Though I had doubts. 

"Yet so far the world has not gone completely irrational, this is because she values common 
sense more than her own wishes." 

"This may sound childish, but," Koizumi lifted his head and said, 

"Let's take an example, she wishes for Santa Claus to exist. From common knowledge, Santa 
Claus doesn't exist. Because considering Japan alone, it's just not possible for someone to enter a 
locked house in the middle of the night, leave a present then leave without ever being detected. 
How does Santa Claus know what every child wants for Christmas? And there's no way he could 
leave a present in the house of every child around the world in the space of one night. It's 
physically impossible." 

For someone to actually consider these things seriously, they must truly be mental. 

"Exactly, so that is why Santa Claus could not exist." 

The reason I rebutted him was because he was standing on Haruhi's side, and that really pisses 
me off. So I raised my question, 


"If you're right, doesn't that mean it's impossible for aliens, time travelers and espers to exist? 
Then how come you're here?" 



"Which is why I could imagine, Suzumiya-san feels very uncomfortable with the common sense 
that exists within her. Her common sense has once and again rejected her wish - that is to have a 
world where supernatural occurrences are the norm." 

Does that mean her wild thoughts have a slight edge over her common sense? 

"Perhaps she was unable to suppress those thoughts, which was why I, Asahina-san and Nagato- 
san were summoned to her side, and why I was granted supernatural powers. Though I'm not 
sure what you would think of it." 

It's best to remain unsure. At least I'm not like you, I'm fully aware that I'm a normal human 
being. 

But I have no way of knowing if that's a blessing or a curse. 

"Hey you! No talking in private! I'm discussing something serious here!" 

Not pleased that we were whispering among ourselves, Haruhi's eyes become triangular shaped 
as she glared and shouted at us. So we had to obediently receive the tanzakus and pencils from 
Haruhi and returned to our seats. 

Haruhi hummed and began writing; Nagato sat still and stared at the tanzaku; while Asahina-san had the 
troubled expression of encountering something harder than a difficult math problem. Koizumi said in a 
relaxed manner, "Hmm, now that's a bother", while tilting his head in deep thought. Do you three really 
need to think so seriously for such a matter? Wouldn't it be easier to just take it easy and write 
whatever you like? 



£3 

It was full of what a spoilt mischievous kid would write. It would have been fine if it were meant as a 
joke, yet Haruhi looked so dead serious when she hung her tanzakus on the bamboo leaf. 



And don't tell me that the wishes you wrote are going to become true ! 


I spun the pencil around my fingers and looked aside. The bamboo shoot that Haruhi "stole" was 
lying out of the opened window, its leaves look messed up as a result. The occasional breeze 
made a ruffling noise among the leaves, making one feel cool and relaxed at once. 

"Is everyone done?" 

Haruhi's voice brought my soul back to reality. On the table in front of her were two notes that 
read: 


"Let the world revolve around me as its centre!" 

"I wish the earth would rotate backwards." 

It was full of what a spoilt mischievous kid would write. It would have been fine if it were meant 
as a joke, yet Haruhi looked so dead serious when she hung her tanzakus on the bamboo leaf. 

Asahina-san wrote in her cute and tidy handwriting: 

"I wish my sewing would improve" 

"I wish my cooking would improve" 

The wishes Asahina-san made were just too adorable. She clasped her palms and prayed at the 
tanzakus that she hung on the bamboo leaf. I think she must have got something wrong. 

There was nothing interesting on Nagato's tanzakus, writing in a very regular font, she wrote 
abstract monotonous words such as "harmonize" and "reorganize". 

Koizumi was no different from Nagato, writing in a scribbled handwriting, he wrote simple 
phrases like "world peace" and "fraternal family". 

What about me? Mine was simple as well. Since it's twenty-five and sixteen years in the future, I 
would be an old geezer by then, so I guess the future me would wish for the following: 

"I want money" 

"I want a detached house with a garden where I can give a dog a bath" 

"Such boring wishes!" 

Haruhi declared her thoughts looking astonished after seeing my notes. She was the least 
qualified to feel surprise by my wishes. In the long term, my wishes are far healthier than one 
that asking the earth to rotate backwards! 

"Forget it! Everyone, make sure you remember the wishes that you've written down! The first 
key period would be sixteen years from now. Let's have a race to see whose wish the Alpha 
Aquilae would grant first!" 



Ah sure, of course. 


I looked as Asahina-san nodded her head with a serious expression as I sat on the foldable chair. 
When I looked carefully, Nagato had returned to her world of books already. 

Haruhi stuck the long bamboo shoot out of the window and then put it in a firm position. She 
then pulled a chair besides the window and sat on it. She placed her elbow on the window frame 
and looked up at the sky. The side of her face looked a little bit melancholic, as though not 
knowing what to do next. She is the sort of person whose mood swings very rapidly, and she was 
yelling so excitedly a while ago. 

I opened my text book, and began my attempt to tackle the exams once more. As I tried to 
memorize the different types of adjectives, 

" Sixteen years huh? That's a long time." 

I heard Haruhi mutter under her breath behind me. 


Nagato was silently reading her foreign language novel, Koizumi began to play chess on his 
own, while I was busy trying to memorize my English translations. All this time, Haruhi was 
sitting by the window and looking up at the sky. She was actually quite a beautiful view to 
behold if she keeps on sitting there and doesn't move. At first I thought that she had decided to 
take a leaf from Nagato's book, but somehow the sight of Haruhi sitting there behaving herself 
just made me even more uneasy. I suspect she was probably sitting there thinking of new things 
that would give us a major headache. 

Meanwhile, for some reason, Haruhi looked particularly depressed today. Sometimes she would 
look into the sky and breathe a deep sigh. This made me shudder even more. This silence was 
probably the calm before the storm, it's just too terrifying. The Emperor Sutoku was like that for 
the first two to three days after being exiled to Sanuki. 


Rustle I heard the sound of paper rustling and lifted my head. Sitting opposite of me and working 
hard on her math problems a while ago, Asahina-san placed a finger on her lips and closed her 
right eye, she then gave me an extra tanzaku which she took in advance a while ago. Peeping at 
Haruhi, Asahina-san then retracted her hand and lowered her head with the face of a little girl 
who had just successfully pulled a prank. 

My urge to become an accomplice in crime has now fully awakened, I quickly pulled over the 
tanzaku Asahina-san gave me and read it carefully. 

"Please stay in the club room after today's activity has ended. - Mikuru-chan" 



The above message was written on the note in a small and round handwriting. 
Of course I would comply. 


"That's it for today." 

Haruhi said and quickly picked her bag and left the room. She was behaving rather unusual for 
today. She was like a diesel engine truck that has suddenly become as tame as a solar powered 
car. Things sure are going fine for me today, I thought. 

"Then I shall excuse myself as well." 

Koizumi tidied up his chess board and stood up. After exchanging glances with me and Asahina- 
san, he too left the Literature Club room. 

Nagato shut her thick book with a loud thud. Oh, so you're leaving as well? Thanks for 

understanding Just as I was feeling grateful for her, Nagato walked towards me as silently as a 

cat. 

"Take this." 

She took out a piece of paper. It was another tanzaku. I can't help you send this to space even if 
you give it to me! I thought to myself as I looked at the tanzaku. 

Strange geometric shapes were drawn on it. What on earth is this? Some sort of Sumerian 
language? I'm afraid not even the Enigma machine would be able to decipher the meaning of this 
message. 

I frowned and studied these patterns, which were neither drawings nor words, with triangular, 
circular and wave-like shapes all over. By now Nagato had turned around to pack her bag, and 
had left the room already. 

Forget it. I placed the piece of tanzaku into my jacket pocket, then turned to face Asahina-san. 

"I, I'm sorry, but I hope you could come with me to a place." 

This invitation didn't come from anyone else, but from Asahina-san herself. I'll be condemned by 
the heavens if I turn her down. I'd even jump down a molten iron pit as long as she commands 
me to. 


Sure, where're we going? 



That um it's three years ago. 


I asked for a location, and she answered with a time instead. But 

Not three years ago again? I thought to myself, yet I was suddenly interested. After all, Asahina- 
san claims to be a time-traveler from an unknown future, though I keep forgetting about that 
since she's just so cute. But three years ago? We're going to three years ago? Does that mean we 
have to travel through time? 

"Y yes." 

"Sure, I'm more than happy to go, but why me? What 're we going to do there?" 

"That you'll know when you get there I think." 

Huh? 

Maybe it was the confused look on my face, Asahina-san frantically shook her hands and 
pleaded with me with tears in her eyes, 

"I beg you! Please don't ask anything and just agree for now! Or I'll be in um it will 

become a problem." 

"Well alright, let's go." 

"Really? Thank you!" 

Asahina-san was glad and grabbed my hands joyously. Ah, Asahina-san's happiness is my 
happiness, hahaha! ! ! 

Now that I think about it, when Asahina-san declared that she was from the future, there was no 
one else to verify her claim. It wasn't until I encountered another grown-up version of Asahina- 
san that I truly believed her story, yet I still can't deny having suspicions about some sort of 
conspiracy behind this. Then wouldn't this be a great chance to really prove that "Asahina-san 
comes from the future"? 

"So, where's the time machine?" 

I had thought we only needed to crawl into a drawer, but Asahina-san said there was no such 
device. Then how were we going to commence time travel? Asahina-san squirmed and clutched 
her apron, then said, 

"From here." 

Huh? Here? I turned and looked nonchalantly around the club room, which was empty besides 
the two of us. 



"Yes, please sit down. And could you please close your eyes? Yes, relax your shoulders as well." 
I did as she told me to. I hope I don't get struck on the back of my head suddenly. 

"Kyon-kun " 

Asahina-san's suppressed voice came in from behind my ear. Such a soft breath. 

"I'm sorry." 

I had a bad feeling about this. As I was about to open my eyes, suddenly everything went dark 
around me. I was knocked unconscious as I felt a strong nauseating feeling as though losing my 
balance. Before the darkness came, I thought to myself, I wouldn't have agreed to this if I had 
known. 


When I regained my senses, my vision was inverted by 90 degrees. Everything that was 
supposed to be standing was now lying flat, when I saw the street lamps sticking out from my 
left side to my right, I realized I was lying down. It was then I felt a warm feeling by the left side 
of my head. 

"Oh, you've awakened?" 

An angelic voice said. I was fully awake now. What was that squirming under my left ear? 

"Um if you don't lift your head then I would be " 

Asahina-san sounds troubled. I pulled myself upright and confirmed where I was. 

A bench in the park at night. 

What's going on here? I was sleeping on Asahina-san's knees, and because I was sleeping, I have 
absolutely no memory of it. This is such a pity. 

"My legs are getting numb already, it's becoming tiring." 

Asahina-san smiled with embarrassment and lowered her head. I don't know where she went to 
get changed, but her maid costume has now been replaced by her North High sailor uniform. 
There was more than enough time from dusk to late night for her to get changed, as I had fallen 
asleep for the whole time. But, why was I sleeping? 


"That's because I can't let you know the methods of traveling through time, since that's classified 
information are you angry?" 



No, I'm not angry at all. If it were Haruhi, I'd have already beaten the crap out of her; but since 
this is Asahina-san, then I wouldn't mind at all. 

Speaking of which, I was just closing my eyes and sitting on the chair in the club room a while 
ago, why was I suddenly in the park in the middle of the night now? And I feel like I've been to 
this park before. I remember Nagato also asked to meet me in this park the other day, is this 
some holy ground for queer people? 

I scratched my head, there was something I needed to ask, 

"What time plane is this?" 

Sitting besides me, Asahina-san replied, 

"From our time of origin, it is now July 7th three years ago. It's about nine at night, I guess?" 

"Is that so? 

"Yes." 

She looked serious. 

I never thought we would come here so easily. Of course, I wasn't naive enough to believe 
everything she tells me, I would have to confirm first. I'll try calling the time and weather 
hotline. 

As I was about to tell Asahina-san what I planned to do, my left shoulder suddenly felt heavy. 
Huh? Asahina-san was now lying her head on my shoulder. An exhausted Asahina-san now 
leaned on me; what's the meaning behind this? 

"Asahina-san." 

No response. 

"Um " 

"(Snore) " 

Snoring? 

I leaned my head forward then turned 85 degrees to the left, and saw Asahina-san with her eyes 
closed, her lips half-opened as she made a quiet snore. What's going on here? 

Rustle 


The bushes behind suddenly rustled. I felt my heart leaping out of my mouth, what was that? 



"Is she asleep?" 

Coming out of the bushes was none other than another Asahina-san. 

"Good evening, Kyon-kun." 

It was the deluxe version of Asahina-san. A pretty young lady, though much older than the 
Asahina-san sleeping on my shoulder, this Asahina-san has grown fully in every part. While still 
looking cute, her charm has increased tenfold. I've met her before once, and like last time, she 
was wearing a white blouse and blue tight miniskirt. This Asahina-san now walked to our front. 

"Hee hee, from this view," 

The adult Asahina-san pinched on the sleeping Asahina-san's cheeks and said, 

"She looks just like a child." 

Looking nostalgic, Asahina-san (big) caressed the sailor uniform of Asahina-san (small), 

"So is this how I look in that age?" 

Feeling the soft breaths of Asahina-san (small) on my arm, I couldn't move and sat still, looking 
in awe at Asahina-san (big). 

"It was her mission to bring you here, yet from here onwards, it will be my mission to guide 
you." 

Looking like an idiot, I asked Asahina-san, who gave a mature aura even when smiling, 

"Um .just what is " 

"I can't explain in detail, since it's classified. All I can do now is guide you." 

I turned to look at the Asahina-san sleeping on my shoulder. 

"It was I who made her sleep, since I can't be seen by her." 

"Why's that?" 

"Because when I was her, I didn't see myself." 

That reason sounded clear yet confusing at the same time. The charming Asahina-san closed one 
eye and said, 



"Go south following the rail track over there, you'll come to a public junior high school. Could 
you please go help the person standing outside the school fence? Can you go right now? And I 
hope you don't mind carrying this me along as well, I shouldn't be too heavy." 

She sounded like one of those villagers in those role-playing games. I wonder what treasure I 
would obtain as a reward? 

"Reward? Well " 

The adult Asahina-san elegantly placed her hands under her chin and thought deeply, then she 
gave a mature smile, 

"I have nothing to offer you, but you could kiss me while I'm sleeping softly. And make sure it's 
only when I'm sleeping." 

Such an attractive deal! That's exactly what I've been wishing for. The sight of Asahina-san 
sleeping soundly was so cute I was tempted to do it, but 

"That's a bit " 

Whether it was my mood or the situation then, I just don't feel like it would be appropriate for 
me. Frankly, I was disgusted at myself for being so rational then. 

"Time is running short, I must go now." 

Is this the hint you're giving me this time? 

"Oh, yes, please don't let her know that I was here. Let's hook our fingers and make a promise." 

I automatically lifted my little finger and hooked it with Asahina-san's (big) little finger. Can I 
hook it for a minute longer? 

"Goodbye then, Kyon-kun." 

Asahina-san (big) said cheerfully and walked off into the darkness, she was out of sight in no 
time. She sure left slickly this time. 

"Now then " I muttered to myself. I wonder when I'll meet this adult Asahina-san again? I had 

a feeling she hasn't changed much since giving me that strange hint the last time we met. Maybe 
this Asahina-san who appeared came from an earlier time plane than the one I met before. I don't 
get it. There's no way I could. Judging from the mood just now, it was possible I would meet 
many more Asahina-sans from different time periods. 



Asahina-san, who I carried on my back, wasn't light, but she wasn't exactly heavy either. It was 
natural that my pace has slowed down. Her angelic face breathed such soft breaths into my ear 
that it was almost criminal. My neck felt itchy from her breathing. 

I avoided the glances of the pedestrians (though there was hardly anyone else on the street), and 
quickly headed in the direction the adult Asahina-san had pointed out for me. I think I walked for 
another ten minutes, the pedestrians on the road became less and less as I walked along. After 
turning around a corner, we finally arrived at our destination. 

East Junior High. I've heard of this place. This was Taniguchi and Haruhi's junior high. Speaking 
of which, a familiar person was now standing in front of the school fence. I instantly recognized 
the small figure that was about to climb up the metal fence. 

"Hey!" 

After yelling, I felt surprised. How did I know who this person was? This was too incredible. I 
looked at that person's back, the height was much shorter, while the dark straight hair was neither 
long nor short. 

Of course, there was only one person who I knew would sneak out at night and scale the school 
fence. 

"What?" 

It was now that I truly began to feel that I was now face to face with a past reality three years 
ago. No kidding, it seems like I've really traveled three years back in time. 

Leaning by the fence, the face that turned and looked at me was indeed younger than the 
commander of the SOS Brigade that I know. Yet there was no mistaking that pair of glittering 
eyes, those were Haruhi's eyes. Even if she dressed casually in a T-shirt and pair of shorts, she 
still looked the same to me. Three years ago, Haruhi was in her first year of junior high. Could 
she be the person Asahina-san wanted me to help? 

"Who are you? A sex criminal? Or a kidnapper? At any case, you look suspicious." 

The blurry street lamps showered the street in a dim white light. I could not clearly make out 
Haruhi's expression, yet Haruhi, the first year junior high student, was now looking at me with 
eyes that has seen something suspicious. Who looked more suspicious? A girl trying to scale the 
school fence in the middle of the night? Or me who was loitering around carrying a sleeping 
girl? I really don't feel like giving this question any thought. 

"You're the one looking suspicious instead. What're you doing here then?" 

"What else would I be here for? To illegally enter the premises, of course." 


Don't openly declare your criminal intentions like that, there's a limit to being shameless! 



"You came just in time. I don't know you, but if you're free, then help me out a bit! Or I'll call the 
cops." 

I should be the one calling the cops, but I've already promised the other Asahina-san. On the 
other hand, why do I always find the existence known as Suzumiya Haruhi clinging on to me? 
Even here in this time period? 

Haruhi leaped to the inside of the fence and opened the lock on the fence with a key. Where'd 
you get those keys from? 

"I stole them when no one was looking. It was too easy." 

She was truly a pickpocket. Haruhi slowly slide open the metal fence and waved at me. I walked 
towards the little girl, who was one head shorter than her future self three years later, holding 
Asahina-san up properly. 

Next to the entrance of East Junior High was the track field. The school complex was opposite 
us. Haruhi started to walk diagonally across the dark track field. 

It's good that it was so dark, since she wasn't able to see clearly my face or Asahina-san's. In 
three years time, Haruhi would never have thought that she had met me and Asahina-san while 
she was in her first year of junior high. So it was good this way, or it'll become troublesome. 

Haruhi went straight to the corner of the track field and led me to the back of the sports equipment 
storage. Inside was a rusty wagon, and a chalk-drawing machine hanging behind its wheels, as well as a 
few bags of chalk powder. 




Leaning by the fence, the face that turned and looked at me was indeed younger than the commander of 
the SOS Brigade that I know. 

"I had these hidden beforehand in the storage house during the evening, pretty clever huh?" 

Haruhi beamed, she then carried the bag of chalk powder, which was nearly as heavy as her, onto 
the wagon and pushed the handle. The way she slowly pushes the wagon made me realize how 
young she really was. I guess junior high students are still more or less kids in their first year. 

I carefully placed the sleeping Asahina-san down and let her lean against the wall of the storage 
house, please sit here like a good girl for now. 

"Let me do it! Give me that thing, you go carry the chalk-drawing machine." 

Should I really be helping her? All this time I have been driven around like a slave by Haruhi, 
she was like a robot that went astray and won't stop until she has destroyed everything. She was 
still the same from the past all the way to the present. It seems a person's inherent nature won't 
change so easily in the space of three years. 

"Follow my instructions and draw the lines. That's right, you there. Because I need to watch over 
you from somewhere afar and see if you've made any mistakes. Ah! You've drawn it wrong 
there! What're you doing!?" 

To be able to order around a high school student she never met before without even flustering, 
there's no doubt this is indeed Haruhi. If I had met this sort of junior high schoolgirl for the first 
time, I probably would have thought she's mentally insane. 

If I knew her before meeting Nagato, Asahina-san and Koizumi, that is. 


Following Haruhi's instructions, I drew white lines along the left and right side of the track. For 
nearly thirty minutes, not a single night-shift teacher appeared, and neither did a police car come 
to investigate after receiving complaints from neighbours. 

Could the strange symbolic patterns that Taniguchi said suddenly appeared on the track field be 
drawn by none other than myself? 

I silently looked at the pattern that I worked so hard to draw out. Haruhi now came to my side 
and snatched the drawing machine from me. She then began to draw a few more lines and said, 


Hey, do you believe there are aliens? 



Now that was sudden. 


"I guess there are." 

The image of Nagato's face flashed in my head. 

"Then what about time travellers?" 

"Hmm, it's not surprising if they exist." 

Right now, I'm a time traveller myself. 

"Then what about espers?" 

"They're everywhere, I guess?" 

I suddenly thought of numerous red spots flying around. 

"And sliders?" 

"I haven't met them yet." 

"Hmph." 

Haruhi threw aside the chalk-drawing machine and rubbed the chalk off her face with her 
shoulders. 

"Hmm, this should do." 

I began to feel uneasy, was it because I said something I shouldn't be saying? Haruhi looked up 
at me and said, 

"Is that a North High uniform?" 

"Yeah." 

"What's your name?" 

"John Smith." 

" Are you an idiot?" 

"Can't I use an alias for once?" 


And who's that girl? 



"That's my sister. She's suffering from a sleeping disorder called narcolepsy. She's been like that 
for some time now, suddenly falling asleep anywhere and anytime, which is why I need to carry 
her around." 

"Hmph." 

Haruhi bit her lower lip and turned aside, revealing an expression of disbelief. I decided to 
change to subject. 

"By the way, what is this for?" 

"Can't you tell? It's a message." 

"For whom? Don't tell me it's for Hikoboshi and Orihime?" 

Haruhi looked surprised and asked me back, 

"How did you know?" 

" Well, it is Tanabata today. I happen to know someone who does something like this as 

well." 

"Really? I'd sure like to meet that person. Is there really such a person in North High?" 

"Yup." 

From now till then, the only person who would do such things is you. 

"Hmm, North High huh " 

Haruhi muttered to herself as in deep thought. She was silent for some time like a salted 
vegetable, she then suddenly turned around the next moment. 

"I'm going home now. I've achieved what I came here for. See ya." 

She walked off in great strides. Not even a word of thanks? How rude, yet that sure is how 
Haruhi would behave. Besides, she never gave her name all this time. I had a feeling it's 
probably good that she never did. 


We can't just stay here forever, so I decided to wake up Asahina-san. Of course, not before I 
returned the wagon and chalk-powder which Haruhi abandoned back into the storage house. 



Sleeping like a kitty cat, Asahina-san looked so cute I was tempted to do something naughty to 
her, but in the end I resisted this urge and slowly shook her shoulders. 

"Um huh. Eh? " 

Opening her eyes, Asahina-san began to look around non-stop. 

"EH!?" 

She shouted and stood up at once. 

"W,w,w where is this place? Why? What time is it now?" 

How should I answer her? Just as I was about to look for an answer, Asahina-san suddenly 
yelled, "AH! ! !" Even in the dark, I could tell that her white face was now paler than usual. 

Asahina-san searched herself with both her hands, 

"The TPDD it's gone. I can't find it~~." 

Asahina-san was on the verge of tears, then after a while she really started to cry. She looked just 
like a kid that got lost as she rubbed her hands on her eyes and wept. But now is not the time to 
adore her cuteness. 

"What's a TPDD?" 

"Sob— That's classified information, I'm not supposed to say it's something like a time 

machine. I used that to get us to this time plane but I can't find it. Without that, we can't return 

to the time where we came from " 

"Then how did it go missing?" 

"I don't know I'm not supposed to lose it but it's really gone." 

I thought of the other Asahina-san, who was touching her a while ago. 

"Wouldn't someone come and help " 

"It's impossible. Sob — ." 

Asahina-san explained to me as she sniffed, that every event in a time plane has been decided, so 
if there exists a TPDD, then it should be with her. And right now she no longer has it with her, 
then that means it's already inevitable that she would lose it, so it has been decided that she "no 
longer carries it" something like that. What's that supposed to mean? 

"In other words, what's going to happen to us now?" 



"Sob, sob. It means, if things remain this way, we'll be stuck on the time plane three years ago 
and won't be able to return to our original time." 


Now that's serious! I thought to myself, yet somehow I don't feel alarmed. The adult Asahina-san 
never told me anything about this. I'm guessing she should be the one who took the TPDD away 
and created such a situation. I deduced that Asahina-san (big) came here to the past just for that 
purpose alone. For the Asahina-san who came from a further time than this Asahina-san, this was 
inevitable. 

I moved my eyes away from Asahina-san, who was sobbing sadly, and towards the track field. 
The mysterious pattern that Haruhi thought up and drawn by me looked very scrambled up. The 
teachers and students of East Junior High are probably going to get a shock when they see this 

next morning. I just hope that these scribbles are not some curses aimed at aliens Just as I was 

wondering away, then it finally hit me. 

It was dark everywhere, the school was only dimly lit by the blurry street lamps outside. As the 
white lines that I drew were so big, if I didn't stand back some distance, I wouldn't be able to see 
it all. 

Which was why it took me so long to discover it. 

I reached for my pocket and took out the tanzaku Nagato gave me. On it were drawn some 
mysterious geometric shapes. 

"There may be a way out of this." 

I said, Asahina-san looked at me blinking her eyes while I continued to study the tanzaku. 

The symbolic patterns drawn on it was exactly the same as Haruhi's message for the stars, the 
graffiti that Haruhi and I drew on the school field not long ago. 


We hastily left East Junior High and came to a high-class apartment complex near the station. 
"Isn't this Nagato-san's home?" 

"Yeah. I didn't ask her specifically when she came to Earth, but I'm sure she was here three years 
ago I guess." 

I stood at the main entrance of the apartment complex and pushed the button for Room 708. A 
beep sound was heard through the intercom, I could feel the warmth of Asahina-san's nervous 
hands through my sleeves. I spoke into the speaker, 



"Is this the residence of Nagato Yuki?" 

" " The intercom replied as such. 

"Um, I don't know how to say this " 


"I'm a friend of Suzumiya Haruhi does that make any sense to you?" 

A frozen-like breath can be heard through the intercom. A brief pause, and then 

"Come in." 

Beep The main gate opened. I led Asahina-san, who was looking terrified, into the elevator. We 
arrived at the seventh floor and came in front of Room 708, which I have visited once before. I 
pushed softly on the door, which then opened slowly. 

There stood Nagato Yuki inside the door. Everything felt surreal to me. Was it really true that I 
and Asahina-san had travelled back in time? 

Nagato looked exactly the same as I saw her before, which led me to doubt whether we even 
travelled through time. The way she wore her North high sailor uniform, looked at me with her 
emotionless eyes, and her seeming lack of body warmth and sense of existence was no different 
to the Nagato that I knew. Yet, the only difference was that Nagato had recently stopped wearing 
glasses, while the Nagato here wore one just as I had first met her. 

This Nagato wore on her face a pair of glasses which I had no idea when the present Nagato 
stopped wearing. 

"Hey!" I raised my arm and gave her a friendly smile. Nagato was as devoid of emotion as 
always. Asahina-san hid behind my back and trembled incessantly. 

"Could we come in?" 


Nagato silently turned inside towards her apartment. I took that she had given me and Asahina- 
san permission to enter. We took off our shoes and headed to the living room. It was the same as 
it was three years later, the place was still empty as usual. Nagato stood still and waited for us to 
come in. Left with no choice, I decided to continue standing and explain everything to her. 
Where should I begin? From the first day of school when I first met Haruhi? That's one hell of a 
long story. 



Skipping through the details, I gave her a brief summary of what has happened. Her emotionless 
eyes continued to stare at me through her glasses. I think I spent about five minutes explaining, 
though personally I believed the summary for this Haruhi story was nonsensical to say the least. 

" And so, the you from three years later gave me this." 

Nagato gazed at the tanzaku that I took out, her fingers hovering over the strange symbols as 
though reading a barcode. 

"Understood." 

Nagato simply nodded her head. Is that so? Wait, I've suddenly thought of something that's really 
bothering me. 

I placed my hand on my temple and said, 

"It's true that I've known Nagato for some time, but for you it was three years ago. That is, for 
you right now, this is the first time we have met, right?" 

Even I didn't understand what I was talking about. Yet Nagato's glasses flashed as she calmly 
replied as though nothing had happened, 

"Yes." 

"Then " 

"Obtaining permission for memory sharing with alternate temporal disparity. Downloading 
reversible moving time plane data." 

What the hell's that? 

"The 'me' that exists in the time plane three years from now, and the 'me' that exists in this time 
period are one and the same person." 

Then what? Isn't that supposed to be the case? But it can't be possible for Nagato three years ago 
to share the same memory as Nagato three years later. 

"It is possible." 

How'd you do it? 

"Synchronization. " 


Um, I still don't get it. 



Nagato stopped replying and slowly took off her glasses. Her emotionless eyes blinked at me. 
That was indeed the face of the bookish girl that I recognize. It was the Nagato Yuki that I knew. 

"Why are you in the North High uniform? Have you already started school?" 

"No, right now I'm on stand-by mode." 

"Stand-by you intend to stand-by for three years?" 

"Yes." 

"That's really " 

Patient of you. Don't you find it boring? Nagato shook her head and said, 

"This is a mission." 

Her clear eyes looked straight at me, 

"There is more than one way to move through time." 

Nagato said with her blank expression, 

"TPDD is only a tool for controlling spacetime, it contains uncertainties and inaccuracies. Many 
theories exist for movement through the spacetime continuum." 

Asahina-san once again grabbed my hand tightly, 

"Um what does that mean?" 

"Using TPDD to transfer organic lifeforms through time is allowed, but it will generate noise. 
For us, that is not an ideal tool." 

When you say "us" do you mean the Integrated Data Sentient Entity? 

"Can Nagato-san perform leap through time planes in its complete form?" 

"Form is not necessary. It is enough for time travel as long as it contains the same data." 
Shuttling back and forth between past, present and future huh? 

If Asahina-san can do it, then it wouldn't be hard at all for Nagato. Since Nagato possesses 
adequate powers to do so. I started to wonder, when compared with Nagato and Koizumi, 
wouldn't that make Asahina-san an outsider? 


Then it's fine. 



I interrupted Asahina-san and Nagato's conversation, now is not to time to discuss the theories 
and workings on time travel. The question now is what we should do so that I and Asahina-san 
can return to the future three years later. 

Yet, Nagato simply nodded her head again and said, 

"It can be done." 

She then stood up and opened the paper door to the room which was connected with the living 
room. 

"Here." 

It was a Japanese style bedroom laid with tatami, there was nothing else besides tatami. It looked 
really lonely, as expected from Nagato's place. This I could understand, but why has she brought 
us here to this guest room? Is the time machine hidden inside this room? Just as I was about to 
ask all sorts of questions, Nagato took out a futon from the cupboard and started laying it flat. 

She even brought two blankets out. 

"I hope it's just me thinking too much but you aren't asking us to sleep here, are you?" 

Nagato carried the blanket and looked at me. The figures of me and Asahina-san were clearly 
reflected in her crystal clear pupils. 

"Yes." 

"Here? With Asahina-san? The two of us?" 

"Yes." 

I stole a glance at my side and saw Asahina-san looking embarrassed, her face blushing red 
furiously. That reaction was expected, I guess. 

But Nagato doesn't seemed concerned at all, 

"Now sleep." 

Don't be so direct! 

"It's only sleeping." 

Sigh that's what I intend to do anyway. I exchanged glances with Asahina-san. She blushed 

while I shrugged my shoulders. It was us who came to Nagato for help, if she wants us to sleep, 
then let's sleep! If we wake up and find ourselves back to where we came from, then it's quite a 
simple solution. 



Nagato switched off the lamp switch with her hand and began to mutter something. As I 
wondered, She can't be saying good night to us, could she? The lamp then flickered and went 
off. 


Might as well sleep ! I laid down and pulled the blanket over. 


The next moment, the lights went on again. The fluorescent tube slowly flickered as the light became 
stabalized. Huh? What's this strange feeling? Outside the window was the same night sky as before. 



"I hope it's just me thinking too much but you aren't asking us to sleep here, are you?". .."Yes." 

I sat upright, Asahina-san also sat up, clutching her blanket. 

Her innocent, child-like face looked troubled, and she looked at me with a questioning glance, 
but of course I didn't know how to answer her questions. 

Nagato stood there like before as she turned on the lamp switch. 

I have a feeling that this wasn't Nagato's usual face, it's as though there's some emotion inside 
this one. I looked closely at that pale white face, it's as though she wanted to express something 
but was not able to due to some conflict within her heart. If I hadn't observed her face for quite 
some time, I would hardly have noticed it. Though I can't guarantee that it wasn't just my 
imagination. 

The sound of breathing in could be heard by my side, I turned and saw Asahina-san meddling 
around with the liquid display watch on her right wrist. 



Eh? It can't be? Eh? Is this true? 


I took a glance at her watch, could that thing be the so-called TPDD? 

"No, this is just an automatic digital watch." 

You mean those watches which automatically synchronizes with the standard time? Asahina-san 
smiled happily at me and said, 

"We've returned. Our time of origin was July 7th just after nine thirty at night. This is such a 

relief Phew!" 

She breathed a sigh of relief from the bottom of her heart. 

Standing by the door was the Nagato we knew. If I have to distinguish besides whether she wears 
her glasses or not, then this Nagato Yuki was the one that has softened up a bit. Seeing her three 
years later, I finally understood. The Nagato before me has indeed changed a bit since I first saw 
her in the Literature Club room when Haruhi brought me there. The change was so small that she 
probably doesn't realize it herself. 

"But, how did you do it?" 

Nagato explained to Asahina-san without any emotion, 

"Selective freezing of liquefied connected data within spacetime, preserving it until the known 
destination within the spacetime continuum, and finally unfreezing the data." 

She said some very abstract terms, then paused and added, 

"And that is now." 

Asahina-san attempted to stand up, then her knees softened and she knelt down again, 

"Could it be impossible Nagato-san, you " 

Nagato remained silent. 

"What's wrong?" I asked. 

"Nagato-san has stopped time itself. She probably had the time in this space along with us 

frozen for three years, until today when she finally unfroze the time right?" 

"Yes." Nagato replied and nodded her head. 

"This is unbelievable, to be able to stop time wah~." 



Asahina-san knelt exhaustedly and sighed. 

I thought to myself, seems like we've safely returned to three years in the future. I was sure of it 
just by looking at Asahina-san's reaction, she was that sort who wears her thoughts on her face. 
No matter, I'll believe the reason for how we returned from three years ago and how time had 
been frozen for now. Right now I can tolerate almost anything, no matter what it is, I can 
basically accept it without any problems. It's all good but, 

This wasn't the first time I'd visited Nagato's home. She had invited me once, more than a month 
ago, but that time I only saw the living room and had not entered this guest room, which I wasn't 
even aware had existed. So um, in other words, what's going on here? 

I looked at Nagato, and Nagato looked at me. 

In other words, when I visited for the first time and heard her story concerning data 

explosions, there was another "me" sleeping in the room besides us. 

What's going on? That was going on according to logical deduction. 

"Yes." Nagato said. I suddenly felt dizzy. 

" Hey, does that mean back then you already knew what would happen? Including me and 

today's events?" 

"Yes." 

From my perspective, the first time I met Nagato was during the start of the school term when 
Haruhi thought of setting up the SOS Brigade. Yet Nagato had already met me in Tanabata three 
years ago. For me, that only happened not long ago, but she told me that was already three years 
ago. I think I'm going crazy already. 

Both me and Asahina-san looked stunned and astonished at this turn of events. I always knew 
Nagato was capable, but I never thought she could even freeze time. In that case, doesn't that 
make her the amazing Wonder Woman? 

"Not entirely true." 

She flatly refuted my praises. 

"This was a special exception. An emergency. Unless it is very important, this method is rarely 
used." 

And we were considered "very important". 


Thank you, Nagato. 



I decided to thank her first, though thanking her was the best I could do. 


"It doesn't matter." 

Nagato nodded her seemingly cold face, then handed me the tanzaku with geometric symbols 
drawn on it. I received it and noticed the paper quality had worn out a lot, as though it had been 
left for three years. 

"Oh yeah, the symbols on this tanzaku, can you tell me what it's saying?" 

I casually asked. I didn't think anyone could read some nonsensical symbols drawn by Haruhi, so 
I simply thought it would just be a joke. 

"I am here," 

Nagato replied. I was exasperated. 

"That is what's written on it." 

I'm getting more and more confused now. 

"Could these Nazca-like drawings or symbols be some sort of alien language?" 

Nagato didn't answer that question. 


Asahina-san and I left Nagato's home and walked under the moonlit sky. 

"Asahina-san, was there any meaning for you to bring me to the past?" 

Asahina-san tried her hardest to think, then lifted her head and said in a very soft voice, 

"I'm sorry. I well um I'm not sure I'm like the end interface no, the 

bottom no, I'm just like a trainee " 

"Yet you're by Haruhi's side." 

"That's because, I never thought I would be caught by Suzumiya-san to join the club." 

She pouted and said. Asahina-san, you look cute with that expression as well. 

"I merely followed the orders of my superiors, or higher up. So not even I know what 

meaning there is for the things that I do." 



Looking at a blushing Asahina-san, I thought to myself, could that superior be none other than 
the adult Asahina-san? It was a baseless speculation, but since the only time travellers I know are 
her and the normal Asahina-san, I can't be blamed for thinking that. 


"I see." 

I tilted my head and muttered. 

Yet, I still didn't understand. If that adult Asahina-san came to drop me a hint, then she would 
know what would happen to us. And it seems she never told this Asahina-san anything as well. 
Just what was going on? 

"Hmm " 

It's no use getting a headache over this. If Asahina-san doesn't understand it, then there's no way 
I could understand. Nagato said that there's more than one way to travel through time. Future 
time travellers have their own set of rules I guess? I hope someone will explain these to me, 
when everything is settled. 

I parted ways with Asahina-san at the station. Her small figure once again gave thanks to me, 
then left as though it was a great pity. After she was out of sight, I headed home as well, and it 
was now that I realized that I had left my bag in the club room. 


The next day, which was July 8th; for my consciousness, it was indeed the next day, but for my 
body, it felt like three years and one day had passed since I last went to school. I went to school 
empty handed and headed straight for the club room, then went to the classroom after getting my 
bag. Asahina-san came earlier than me it seems, as her bag was nowhere to be seen. 

Arriving in the classroom, I saw Haruhi sitting there, looking intently out of the window, as if 
fully expecting the arrival of aliens. 

"What's wrong? You've been looking depressed since yesterday. Have you been picking and 
eating toxic mushrooms?" 

I said and sat down. Haruhi gave a deliberate sigh and said, 

"Nothing really. Just feeling melancholic thinking about something in the past. Some memories I 
had during Tanabata." 

I shuddered at once. What memories were those I didn't ask her. 


I see. 



Haruhi turned her head and observed the changes in the clouds. I shrugged my shoulders. I have 
no intentions of lighting the fuse for this bomb. Anyone with common sense would do the same. 


After school, the Literature Club room once again became the underground headquarters of the 
SOS Brigade. 

Haruhi only said, "Throw the bamboo shoot away, it's useless now." Then left at once. The 
"commander" armband looked rather lonely after being left behind on the table. Sigh, tomorrow 
she'll return to being the eccentric girl, asking us to do impossibly unreasonable things. She's that 
sort of person. 

Asahina-san wasn't here as well. Only Nagato Yuki was in the room, alongside with me playing 
chess with Koizumi. Unable to resist his "evangelistic" passion for chess, I agreed to let him 
teach me how to play the game. 

I had thought Koizumi switched to playing chess because he was crap at Othello, but it seems I 
was wrong. He was just as crap at chess. 

I took out one of Koizumi's pawns with my knight while glancing at Nagato, who was looking 
intently at the chess board with her blank face. 

"Say, Nagato, I don't get it at all. Is Asahina-san really from the future?" 

Nagato slowly tilted her head. 

"Yes." 

"But I just feel a sense of paradox between heading to the past and returning to the future." 

That was expected. If there were no continuity between the past and the future - if we went back 
three years ago, went to sleep over there and reawakened in the present, then the "present" that 
we're in now should be a different world from the "yesterday" that we departed from. Yet from 
the outcome, I had given Haruhi an idea she shouldn't have, and that idea had brought Haruhi to 
North High, enhancing her interest in all non-human life there exists this possibility. 

If I didn't travel back to three years ago, maybe everything would never have happened. Judging 
from the tone of adult Asahina-san, she seems to know more than us. In other words, continuity 
does exist between the past and the future. This contradicts with what Asahina-san had told me 
earlier. I can still figure this out at least, no matter how dumb I am. 


"As there is no conclusion to the paradox theory, there is no way to prove that there is no 
paradox." 



Nagato said calmly, giving a strange expression that reads That should explain everything. That 
explanation may indeed be enough for you, but I completely do not understand at all. Nagato 
lifted her smooth white neck and looked at me, 

"Soon you will understand." 

She then went back to her usual seat and returned to her world of books. Koizumi now spoke, 

"That's the case. Right now my king is being checked by your rook. This is sure a problem for 
me, where should I escape to?" 

Koizumi said while picking up his black king, then casually placed the king into his jacket 
pocket. He then showed his palm like a magician revealing his tricks, 

"Well, is there a paradox with me doing this?" 

I toyed around the white rook with my fingers and thought, I'm not going to play some stupid 
Zen philosophy games with you, and I don't plan to satisfy myself with abstract topics. So I 
refuse to answer your question. 

In any case - there's no doubt that Haruhi is a paradoxical existence, the same can be said for this 
world. 

"Besides, a king means nothing to us, instead, it is the queen that plays a more important role." 

I placed the white rook on the box where the black king was standing. Queen to Knight 8. 

" I don't know what's going to happen next, but I just hope it's not something that'll give me a 

major headache." 

Nagato remained silent, while Koizumi smiled and said, 

"I think it's best for things to remain peaceful, or would you prefer to have something happen?" 

I snorted and drew a circle by my name on the score chart. 


Mysterique Sign 


Mysterique Sign 


Unsurprisingly, Haruhi had recovered from her melancholic state during the end-of-term exams, 
and was once again acting however she pleased. As for me, it seemed like the blue color forced 
out by that reaction had been passed into my hands like a baton, and I was at the peak of misery. 
Every exam paper that was distributed made me feel worse and worse. My melancholy was 
probably shared as much by Taniguchi. In the midterm exams, we were like comrades who 
would fly right on the edge of the low altitude line together, even when the red mark of failure 
had us firmly caught in its radar. A person is an animal that wants someone who is at least as 
stupid as itself around. You can feel relatively at ease if they're around. On the other hand, this is 
absolutely not the case when you see somebody else relaxing. 

Taking her test in the seat behind me was Haruhi, who somehow always had time to spare. 
Around thirty minutes before the allotted time was over, you could usually hear her sleeping on 
her desk. 

How annoying. 

All club activities are suspended during exams, but since the SOS Brigade is open all-year-round 
for some reason, reopening for business on a day like this is normal, even though no one had 
asked us to, same as yesterday and the day before that. School enforced policies do not apply to 
SOS Brigade activities, apparently. This is only natural, since this whole thing has been a 
mistake from the very beginning. And since this enigma of a brigade wasn't even a club or 
anything, it didn't matter. That is Haruhi's policy. 

Like the other day. Although I had just managed to raise my will to study to the limit, at just the 
right moment, Haruhi dragged me by my sleeve and brought me with her to the clubroom. 

"Look at this for a sec." 

Haruhi said, pointing to the display of the computer that she had plundered from another club 
some time ago. 

There was no avoiding it, so I looked. The graphics-editing software was showing an 
incomprehensible scrawl. It looked like a drunken tapeworm rolling around in its drink in the 
middle of a circle; I had no idea what kind of drawing it was supposed to be. I didn't know what 
else to think, other than that it was something drawn by a kindergartener. 

"What is it?" 

I said frankly. 

Immediately, Haruhi responded with her mouth looking like a duck's, 


Can't you tell? 



I can't. I don't get it at all. Today's Modern Japanese exam was easier to understand than this. 


"What are you talking about? That test was so simple even your little sister could've gotten a 
perfect score." 



Kyon: "I can't. I don't get it at all. Today's Modern Japanese exam was easier to understand than this. " 
Her words were really starting to annoy me, 

"This is my SOS Brigade emblem!" 

She answered, her face glowing with pride, like she had just accomplished some wonderful 
thing. 

"Emblem?" I said. 

"Yes. Emblem." said Haruhi. 

"This? Nobody but a permanent candidate for chief clerk, who pulls all-nighters through 
holidays for two straight months, and retraces his footsteps while taking the hair of the dog, can 
see that." 

"Look at it closely. See, it says 'SOS Brigade' in the middle, right?" 

Now that you mention it, it's not that I don't feel like it seems like it looks like it, but I would 
hesitate to say it out loud that it's not that I can't see it. Well then, how many negatives did I 
string together? I don't feel like doing it myself, so if somebody's free, tally it up for me. 

"You're the one with the most free time! And you're not going to be doing any cramming, 
anyway." 



I was actually brimming with eagerness until just a moment ago. But, now that I think about it, 
you're absolutely correct. 

"I'm thinking about putting this on the SOS Brigade's top page." 

Speaking of which, we do have such a thing. But it's a miserable site that doesn't have anything 
other than a top page. 

"We're not getting any more visitors. How disgraceful! And we haven't received any mysterious 
e-mail at all. It's because you got in my way! I thought we could've used Mikuru-chan's erotic 
pictures to pull in customers." 

Asahina-san's passionate maid pictures are all mine, and I don't intend to share them with 
anyone. This is certainly one of those things in this world that cannot be bought with mere 
money. 

"You may have made this site, but it's reeeaaaally boring, don't you agree? There's totally 
nothing there to liven it up with. So I thought, 'How about putting up something like an SOS 
Brigade symbol?"' 

Just hurry up and remove it from the net. I feel bad for those people who visit this stupid 
homepage by mistake. Since there were no contents, there's nothing to update. All it has is an 
image saying "Welcome to the SOS Brigade Website!", an e-mail address, and an access counter. 
That counter hasn't even reached three digits, and ninety percent of those hits seemed to be 
Haruhi's. 

While I watched as the handmade website appeared in the browser window that Haruhi had 
launched, I asked, 

"Why don't you write a journal? Isn't it the chiefs job to put up a task log? Even the captain of a 
spaceship handles the ship's log." 

"No way, what a pain!" 

It'd be a pain for me, too. To describe a day here, the only things you could write about would be 
stuff like what kind of book Nagato was reading, how Koizumi won at Gomoku Narabe, how 
Asahina-san was cute today as well, and how Haruhi was sitting quietly with her mouth closed. 
Having written such unexciting things, I couldn't think that reading them would be any more fun. 
Therefore, I won't do something that would be far from entertaining anyone. 

"Okay, Kyon. Make this symbol show at the top of the site." 

"Do it yourself." 


I don't know how! 



So look it up. You'll never learn if you keep depending on others. 


"I'm the chief! The chiefs job is to direct. Besides, if I do everything then you guys won't have 
any work to do, will you? You should use your head a little, too. You won't become a better 
person if you only do as you're told." 

Are you telling me to do it, or not to do it? Which is it? Speak proper Japanese. 

"Just do it, already! You can't trick me with that sort of wordplay. You should be thankful that 
you have as much free time as the Greeks did Before Common Era. Come on, hurry up!" 

The longer I had to listen to Haruhi's voice, which was like a crow singing noisily at the break of 
dawn, the more my ears would hurt, so I reluctantly opened the HTML editor, took Master Artist 
Haruhi's illustration, which seemed like it had been drawn by a child who had some time to 
waste, reduced it to an appropriate size, pasted it into the file, and uploaded it without changing 
anything else. 

I clicked reload on the browser to verify the change. It seemed like the unnecessary SOS Brigade 
emblem had left its footprint on the internet world properly. I took a quick look at the access 
counter, and as expected, the number was still at two digits. It'd be fine if no one but Haruhi 
would ever see the site. I don't want it to be known that the one who had made such an awful 
website was me. 


By the end of the day, as the first term somehow comes to a close, so do the days that have 
drawn out my melancholy, coming to a momentary rest that will begin from tomorrow. That 
rest's name is said to be the exam break. This preparatory period will last until summer vacation, 
and is the time when the teachers will probably mark my test papers wrong. 

Damn, how annoying. 

Feeling both depressed and annoyed, my feet took me to the Literature-Club-Room-Turned- 
SOS-Brigade-Hideout. At least I could stare at Asahina-san to achieve some peace of mind. 

Nagato silently reading a book, Koizumi smiling while solving a Shogi problem by himself, 
Asahina-san waiting on us in her maid costume, Haruhi saying, chattering, screaming, or 
shouting something incomprehensible, and me having to listen to those tedious words; this 
composition has been the pattern these days. 

Nothing has been happening recently as well, but I have felt like this since the beginning. 

With a sinking feeling, I knocked on the door. Hoping to hear a "Yes~?" in Asahina's lilting 
voice, what came out from the room instead was, 



Come in! 


It was Haruhi's careless voice, and when I entered, Haruhi was the only one I saw. With her 
elbows on the chiefs desk, she was doing something on the PC that she had forcefully acquired 
from the Computer Studies group. 

"Oh, it's just you?" 

"Yuki's here, too, you know." 

Certainly, Nagato was in the corner of the table with an open book, seeming like she had become 
a figurine as she usually did. She's like an attachment for this room, so there's no need to include 
her in the count. She hasn't committed to entering the SOS Brigade, and is officially a member of 
the Literature Club. But I guess I should still correct myself. 

"Oh, it's just you and Nagato?" 

"That's true, do you have any complaints about it? If you do, I'd like to hear them, I'm the chief 
here, after all." 

If I were to list my complaints about you, it would completely fill up both sides of an A4 note. 

"I'm the one who should be disappointed. Because you knocked like that, I thought a client must 
have certainly come. Don't confuse me by acting like one, okay?" 

I'm taking care so that I don't accidentally witness Asahina-san changing her clothes live. That 
charmingly careless person can't quite remember to lock the door. 

And what was that about clients? Tell me what kind of customer would visit this room. 

After that, Haruhi looked at me with disdain on her face. 

"You don't remember?" 

A thought startled me. She couldn't be talking about what happened three years ago after 
Tanabata, could she? 

"You're the one who did it! And without getting my permission." 

Whatever could that be...? 

"You put up that poster on the clubroom building's bulletin board." 


Oh, that. I let out a sigh of relief. 



To get the student council to somehow approve the SOS brigade, I made up some fictitious 
activity plans. After concluding that a mystery-hunting brigade wouldn't even make it to 
discussions, we could appeal to the student council to let the SOS Brigade continue by acting as 
a consultation office for miscellaneous problems. If I had said such a stupid thing to the 
executive board, we would have been shut down in an instant. 

However, I had already gone so far as making a poster by hand. I don't really remember what I 
wrote, but I think it had something like, "We accept all consultations." Since I'd gone to the 
trouble, I stuck it on a bulletin board I had happened to see. Even if someone did see it, in any 
case, I presumed that there would be no one deranged enough to come to the SOS Brigade for 
advice about their problems. This seems to be the correct answer, as we presently have no 
clients, which suits me just fine. 

Still, as Haruhi had remembered such a thing, was she waiting for clients to actually come? It 
was time to go home for the day, but perhaps it was better to get myself unstuck from here. If a 
student with a truly strange problem came, things would get complicated. 

I was deciding in a corner of my mind, and while Haruhi was moving the mouse round and 
round, she said, 

"Anyway, look at this. Something's strange. I wonder if the PC's broken." 

I looked through the side of Haruhi's hair. What the display was unwillingly projecting was our 
SOS Brigade homepage. However, it was subtly different from what I had made. The emblem 
that had been clumsily scribbled by Haruhi's hand was distorted as if it had been concentrated, 
and the counter and title logo had just been blown off. I tried reloading, but it didn't change. It 
was like abnormal data completely covered it like a mosaic. 

"It's not the PC. It looks like the file on the server is corrupt." 

I don't understand the internet very well, but I know that much. By chance, I had thought of 
keeping a local copy of the site to view in the browser, so we could still make it display properly. 

"Since when has it been like this?" 

"Who knows? I've only been checking the mail these past few days, so I haven't seen the site. It 
was like this when I looked at it today. Where should I file a complaint?" 

There's no need to file a complaint. The fix is simple. I snatched the mouse away from Haruhi, 
and then sent the stored top page files to the server, overwriting the data with the same name. I 
tried redisplaying. 

"Hmm?" 

The site remained crashed. I repeated it many times, but the result was the same. It seemed like I 
had somehow contracted a can't-control-the-computer disorder. 



"Isn't this strange? Maybe it's that thing, those rumors I hear about hackers or crackers that 
people talk about?" 


"Can't be." I denied. It's hard to think that there are people with so much free time that they 
would go cracking a site that wasn't linked to from anywhere and that nobody looks at. It's 
probably some kind of error. 

"How irritating! Maybe someone's committing cyber-terrorism on the SOS Brigade! Who could 
it be? If I find that person, I'll sentence him to thirty days of community service without having a 
trial!" 

Taking my eyes off of the steaming Haruhi, I turned to look at Nagato who seemed to be wearing 
opacity optical camouflage. Couldn't this person have done it somehow? I thought. Although I 
could internally form an image of Nagato arbitrarily having detailed knowledge of computers, I 
have never seen her doing anything with the PC. To be more precise, I should say that there's 
hardly any scene other than her reading a book. 

There was the sound of knocking. 

"Come in!" 

The door opened during Haruhi's reply; it was Koizumi. With his usual, excessively fresh smile, 
"My, how unusual. Asahina-san hasn't arrived yet?" 

"The second years have more exams, don't they?" 

It was the last day of the term for us first years, and we only had three periods. It should've been 
okay if we had quickly gone home, so why were we all gathering in such a place? Did I have so 
few friends? And Haruhi, why didn't you do a counter tsukkomi on Koizumi for knocking? 

Koizumi left his bag lying on the table, brought out a Diamond Game board from the cupboard, 
and turned to me with inviting eyes. I shook my head; Koizumi shrugged and started a single 
player diamond. I really couldn't wait for Asahina-san's tea. 


Knock knock. 

It was the sound of knocking again. This time, I was sitting in front of the chiefs desk grappling 
with the FTP software. Behind me was Haruhi, throwing misguided and out-of-nowhere requests 
this way and that, and making me answer those unreasonable demands. 

So that knock was the ringing sound of salvation for me. 



Come in! 


Haruhi again said in a big voice, and the door opened. Judging from the sequence of things, it 
was probably Asahina-san who had come. 

"Ah, sorry I'm late!" 

Giving a humble apology as she came into sight, a wingless angel, it couldn't have been anyone 
but Asahina-san. 

"I had tests until fourth period " 

As she was saying the excuse that didn't need to be said, she lingered near the door, seeming 
hesitant. She wouldn't move to enter for some reason, and timidly continued, 

"Well, that is... you see." 

All our eyes were focused on Asahina-san. When she noticed that Nagato was looking at her, 
Asahina-san drew back flinchingly, and then, seeming resigned, began to speak. 

"Uh, um... I brought a client." 


That client was named Kimidori Emiri-san, a second year student who gave an impression of 
being timid and neat. 

Presently, with her eyes fixed on the surface of the tea that Asahina-san had poured, she was 
sitting without raising her face. Beside her was Asahina-san, who was seated on an adjacent 
chair like an escort. She hadn't changed into her maid costume like I was anticipating. It was a 
bit disappointing. 

"So, as for you." Haruhi said, making a face like an interviewer's and twirling a ball pen. 
Occupying the space in front of the two second-year students, she continued in an arrogant tone, 

"What you're saying is that you want our SOS Brigade to look for your missing boyfriend?" 

Holding the pen with the top of her lips, Haruhi crossed her arms. Although she was acting as if 
she were thinking about something, I knew better. She was just holding back and could burst into 
laughter at any moment. 

How could this be? Even though I was optimistic that no one would come, our first counselee 
had arrived. It would be typical of Haruhi to probably want to jump for joy in this situation. 



Yes." Kimidori-san said, talking toward her teacup. 



£3 

Holding the pen with the top of her lips, Haruhi crossed her arms. 

Nagato, Koizumi, and I were watching the situation from the sidelines. Before the pair of second 
year students, Haruhi went, 

"Hmm." 

She hummed artificially and gave me a look. 

I was becoming thoroughly resentful of myself. I never should have made such a poster! What 
could I have written, accepting consultations for the problems you couldn't tell other people... 
Was that it? All the same, it never occurred to me that there was a student who would take it 
seriously; wasn't I thinking normally? 

Whether or not she took it seriously, Kimidori-san saw the poster about the SOS Brigade's 
activity objectives, and seems to have mistaken it to mean that we were a counseling office for 
general problems or a service business that does odd jobs. Certainly, that would be the case if 
you had interpreted it literally. Ah I finally remembered; the contents of my fabricated activities 
were "students' school life problems discussions, consulting duties, and progressive participation 
in community service activities." Presently, not one of those could be related to the SOS Brigade. 
Aside from disturbing a grass-lot baseball tournament, we haven't done a thing. 

However, having seen the poster I had written by chance, Kimidori-san had discovered our 
existence, called out to Asahina-san, who was in the same year, after worrying over it, and came 
here together with her; this seems about right. 


So, what could be troubling you? 


He hasn't come to school for many days now. 


Kimidori-san wouldn't meet anyone's eyes, and looked intently at the teacup's rim as she spoke. 

"Although he's rarely absent, he didn't even come in on a test day, which was strange." 

"Have you tried calling him?" Asked Haruhi. Her mouth stopped looking like it was going to 
burst out laughing, and she started biting on the bottom of her ball pen. 

"Yes. He doesn't answer his mobile or house phone. I tried going to his home, but it was locked. 
Nobody came to get the door." 

"Hu-hu-humm." 

A person who delights in other people's misfortune is a real good-for-nothing, but Haruhi was 
emitting such a cheerful aura that she seemed she might break out into a song at any moment. In 
short, this person wasn't even a bum. End of discussion. 

"And your boyfriend's family?" 

Kimidori-san was talking to her tea. It seems it wasn't in this person's nature to be able to talk to 
others while meeting their eyes. 

"I heard from before that his parents had gone to another country. I don't know their contact 
address." 

"Ehhh? Could that country be Canada?" Haruhi asked. 

"No. If I remember correctly, I think it was Honduras." 

"Ho-ho~. Honduras, huh. I see." 

What is it you're seeing? I doubt you even know where that country is. Um... was it somewhere 
below Mexico? 

"There's no sign that he's even in his room. Even when I visited him late in the evening, it was 
completely dark. I'm worried." 

Kimidori-san said indifferently, like she was reading from a script, and covered her face with her 
hands. As Haruhi pursed her lips, she said, 

"Mm. I can't say that I don't understand how you're feeling." 

Liar. You couldn't possibly understand the feelings of a girl in love. 



"In any case, it's amazing how you've come to the facilities of our SOS Brigade. First, tell me 
your motive." 


"Yes. He often mentioned it. So I had remembered." 

"Eh? Who's your boyfriend?" 

At Haruhi's question, Kimidori-san murmured the young male student's name. I feel like I've 
heard it somewhere before, but I also feel that it isn't an acquaintance of mine. Haruhi also drew 
her eyebrows together, 

"Who's that?" 

In a voice like a gentle breeze, Kimidori-san answered, 

"He said that he was neighbors with the SOS Brigade..." 

"A neighbor?" 

Haruhi looked up at the ceiling. Kimidori-san turned to Asahina-san and me, who had tilted our 
heads to the side, and then to Koizumi and Nagato, but her eyes didn't meet anyone's, and she 
returned to staring at her teacup. And then, 

"He's serving as the Computer Club's president." 

Was what she said. 


I had completely forgotten. It was that pitiful president? I had taken pictures of his sexual 
harassment of Asahina-san (against his will), and Haruhi, using that as a pretext, acquired their 
latest model computer (by force), and he was even bullied into doing the wiring in tears; it was 
the Computer Research Club's pitiable upperclassman. No, there's no need to pity him, is there? 
If he has a girlfriend with such a good atmosphere, it's more than even. Come to think of it, I 
wonder where I put that disposable camera. 

"Okay, I got it!" said Haruhi, accepting the task easily. "We'll take care of it. Kimidori-san, 
you're in luck! As client number one, you get your case solved for free as a bonus." 

If you're going to be taking their money, it won't be a school service activity. However, is this 
really some kind of a case? This president something-or-other isn't just simply becoming 
hikikomori, is he? I don't know how he could be complaining, having a sweetheart like Kimidori- 
san, but I think it'd be better to just leave him alone to recover by himself. 



Of course I didn't say that; Kimidori-san left her boyfriend's address on a piece of paper, and 
exited the clubroom in a pace like that of an apparition that had materialized. 

After waiting for Asahina-san to return from seeing her off to the corridor, I opened my mouth. 

"Hey, is it really okay to accept that so easily? What do you plan to do if we can't find the 
solution?" 

But Haruhi just twirled her ball pen in a good mood. 

"We can. That president is surely just hiding away with two-months-late May Sickness. We'll 
just march over to the president, hit him two or three times, and drag him outside. Totally 
simple!" She seems to be seriously thinking that. Well, I was thinking the same thing, though. 

I asked Asahina-san, who was again pouring us some fresh tea. 

"Are you and Kimidori-san close?" 

"No, I haven't talked to her once. She was in the class next door, so I only saw her when we had 
joint lessons." 

It would've been better if she had told the teachers or the police rather than consult with us. No, 
could she already have talked to them before? And because she had been ignored, she called out 
to Asahina-san? It's probably something like that, I think. 

There wasn't any sense of urgency as we idly sipped our tea. Haruhi was unreasonably elated, 
and seemed to be thinking about accepting grander and grander commissions, and then resolving 
them. Although it was lamentable how little was remaining of the first semester, these were the 
circumstances that were likely to force a second round of the flyer distribution project. Just 
forget it. 

Nagato closed her book with a thump, and, as Haruhi would say it, we proceeded with the 
investigation. 


The club president's solo dwelling was a studio apartment. Because of the location, I thought that 
college students were probably the main residents here, in this three-story building that looked 
neither good nor bad, in a color that just looked well enough that you couldn't say if it was new 
or old. Its appearance was exceptionally normal. Ordinary. 


Holding the note where the address was written in her hand, Haruhi dashed high up the stairs. 
The other three and I followed the back of her summer sailor uniform in silence. 



Here, right? 


In front of the steel door, Haruhi confirmed the name on the nameplate. The name that Kimidori- 
san had said was her boyfriend's was inside the plastic case. 

"I wonder if we can open it somehow." 

After trying to turn the knob a few times to check the lock, Haruhi pushed the button on the 
intercom. It should be the other way around! 

"How about we come up from the veranda at the back? If we smash the glass, then we can get in, 
right?" 

I can only wish she was joking. This room is on the third floor, and we aren't a group of aimless 
juvenile delinquents. I have no desire for a criminal record just yet. 

"I guess so. Let's go to the building manager and borrow the key. If we say that we're friends 
who came because we were worried, he'll lend it to us." 

Pretending to be someone's friend is your specialty. But this club president, even though he's 
living by himself, he never gave his girlfriend a duplicate key. That's like harvesting just the 
stem of the eggplant and then throwing the fruit away. 

Ka-chick. 

I turned around at the cold sound, and there was Nagato gripping the knob in silence. 


Nagato was looking at me intently with eyes like liquid helium. Slowly, Nagato tugged at the 
door, and the entrance to the room was agape. The air inside was stale, but for some reason there 
was a chill accompanying it, lurking at our feet - or so I felt. 

"Oh." 

Haruhi's eyes were round, and her lips a semi-circle, 

"It was open? I didn't notice. Well, that's okay. Come on, let's go on in. I'm sure he's hiding under 
his bed, so everyone, just drag him out and we'll capture him. At the worst, if he resists violently, 
you may end his life. We'll soak his head in beeswax and deliver that to the client." 

Apparently, she doesn't feel an atom of guilt for plundering his computer. Unlike Salome, she 
couldn't even be bothered to get a container for the head. In high spirits, she pushed all of us into 
the room, and then saw that the single room was uninhabited. Not a single cockroach. Haruhi 
looked inside the bathroom and under the bed. There wasn't even a human shape anywhere. This 
had one-fourth the space of Nagato's room, and just her guest room at that, but compared to that 



dreary nothingness, the level of life was four times greater. A bookshelf, a closet, a desk that 
looked like a low dining table, and a computer rack had been left in precise order. We confirmed 
through the open window that only a washing machine was hiding in the veranda. 

"How strange." 

While hopping on top of the bed, Haruhi tilted her head in disbelief. 

"Even though I thought he'd be curled up into a ball in some corner of the room hugging his 
knees. Could he have gone to the convenience store? Kyon, do you know some other place 
where a hikikomori would go to?" 

So it's been decided that the Computer Club president is a hikikomori then? Could he be 
traveling around Central and South America on a tour? Or was he seriously hiding his 
whereabouts? We should have asked the homeroom teacher of the club president's class for the 
story before coming here. 

I was looking at the computer-related books lined up in the bookshelf, when someone suddenly 
pulled on the back of my shirt. 


Nagato was looking up at me without any expression, and then shook her chin sideways. 

"We should leave." 

Looking small, Nagato whispered to me. It was the first time I'd heard Nagato's voice today. 
Haruhi and Asahina-san didn't notice, but Koizumi brought his face close to my ear. 

"I feel the same way." 

Don't talk so seriously, it's creeping me out. But Koizumi, with a forced smile and eyes that you 
couldn't laugh at, continued. 

"I feel a strange discomfort in this room. It's close to a sensation that I am familiar with. It's only 
similar, and it feels fundamentally different, but..." 

Haruhi had taken the liberty of opening the refrigerator, "Warabi-mochi, found it! The expiration 
date was yesterday. It'd be a waste, so let's eat!" she said, while tearing up the bag. As Asahina- 
san was flustering about, Haruhi made her taste the proffered convenience store pastry to see if it 
was edible. 

I also spoke in a low voice, naturally. 


Similar to what? 



"Closed space. This room has a similar smell as that place. No, smell is just a metaphorical 
expression. Feeling is also good, such that it is a feeling that exceeds the five senses." 

"You're an esper?!" was a reminiscent tsukkomi that I had to restrain myself not to break into. 
Actually, this person was seriously an esper. 

Nagato murmured in a voice that hardly shook the air. 

"A dimensional fault is in existence. Phase transformation is being executed." 

I can understand that. 

That's just what I wanted to say, though. If Nagato were to unexpectedly look sad or something, 
I'd probably be scared stiff right where I stand, so it would be in my best interest not to say it. Ah 
well. 

At any rate, it would be better to withdraw quickly. After signaling to Koizumi and Nagato, I 
turned my face to the translucent-moc/n'-devouring Haruhi. 


When everyone had left the condominium, Haruhi declared that we were dismissed for the day 
for hunger reasons, and left for home by herself. The case that had been brought in by Kimidori- 
san was being put on hold for the moment; "It'll work itself out, eventually!" she irresponsibly 
said, and stopped thinking accordingly, and the day's matters all went up in the air. 

Looks like she's already lost interest. 

Haruhi wasn't the only one who didn't have lunch yet, but I pretended to go home once everyone 
parted, and after waiting restlessly for ten minutes, returned a second time to the front of the club 
president's condominium. 

The other three brigade members were already waiting together. The walking dictionary space 
alien and the argumentative esper bastard had knowing looks, but Asahina-san asked, 

"Um... What's the matter? You said we should reassemble without Suzumiya-san noticing..." 

She was looking up to me with a confused expression. When my eyes wandered over to Nagato 
and Koizumi, my anxiety strengthened. The one who was waiting for me the most was Asahina- 
san, that's how I'll think about it. 

"Those two seem to be concerned about the room we were just in." I answered. 


Isn't that right? 



The smiling person and the expressionless person nod at the same time. 

"I believe we'll understand if we go back there. Right, Nagato-san?" 

Without saying anything, Nagato started walking. We followed suit. Moving past the stairs 
without even the sound of footsteps, Nagato quietly opened the door to the club president's 
home, silently took off her shoes, and advanced to the center of the room. 

The studio that was by no means spacious was already full with just four people standing in a 
line. 

"Within this room," 

Nagato began to talk. 

"A localized, non-corrosive amalgamation of asynchronous space is independently occurring in 
restricted condition mode." 


We waited for a while, but it seems that was the only explanation. Even if you're speaking with 
phrases that make it seem like you just pulled words out of a dictionary and lined them up after 
they caught your eye, I, having no dictionary, am helpless. 

"What I'm feeling is close to a closed space. The source origin of that is Suzumiya-san, but this 
somehow has a different scent." 

Koizumi said what seems to be a follow-through for Nagato. You make a fine combination. 
Hanging out would be good for you. You should teach Nagato some hobbies other than reading. 

"I will make considerations regarding that matter afterwards. However, there's something we 
should be doing right now. Nagato-san, did this abnormal space cause the president's 
disappearance?" 

"Yes." 

Nagato raised one hand, in a gesture that seemed to be gently stroking the space right before her. 

An unpleasant premonition ran up my spine and stimulated my brain. Maybe I should have said, 
"Hold it!" But before I could even utter those two words, Nagato had whispered something in a 
voice that was like a tape running on twenty-speed fast forward, and, in one moment, a change 
took place as the scene before my eyes flickered. 


Hahi-!? 



Asahina-san leapt and grabbed my left arm with both hands, holding on to me tightly. But I 
didn't have the time to savor that long-awaited sensation, as I was desperately trying to verify my 
location, myself. 

Let's see, I was in the club president's cramped studio. Definitely not at an eerie place like this. I 
was not in a wide, flat space, with an ocher haze hanging in the air such that I couldn't see the 
horizon. Who could have taken me to a place like this? 

"Intrusion codes analyzed. This place is overlapping normal space. A phase has simply slipped 
off." 

Nagato explained. Well, isn't this person the only one who seems like she can do this sort of 
thing? Koizumi, the only one who can go head-on with Nagato in a discussion, said, 

"It doesn't seem to be Suzumiya-san's closed space." 

"It is deceivingly similar. However, a portion of this data space is integrating with junk 
information originating from Suzumiya Haruhi." 

"Up to what extent?" 

"A negligible level. She was merely the trigger." 

"I see. So that's how it is." 

Asahina-san and I are getting along fine with being left out of the conversation. It doesn't bother 
me at all. I really should be grateful. As it is, though, I'd be even more grateful if we could return 
to the original world. 

Asahina-san was clinging to me nervously as she looked around at our surroundings. It seems 
like this space was an unforeseen thing for her. I was the same; my eyes were flying in all 
directions, observing. Though I could breathe, will it be safe to inhale this stuff that seemed like 
a yellow-brown mist? The temperature of the floor that had felt pleasantly cool through my socks 
went right through to the soles of my feet. Whether it was the floor or the ground, the ocher 
plane continued everywhere. To think that such storage space would accompany a room that was 
no more than six tatami mats large. So this was a cross-dimensional space? Well, I had thought 
that such an atmosphere would arrive soon. I was calm, if I can say so myself. 

"Is the Computer Club president here?" 

"It would seem so. This differing space appeared in his own room and trapped him somehow." 
"Where is he? I don't see him." 


Koizumi simply turned his face towards Nagato with a smile. Like it was a signal, Nagato again 
raised one of her hands. 



Hold it! 


This time I was able to make it. In all seriousness, I asked Nagato, who had frozen up, 

"Could you tell me what you're doing? I at least want some time to prepare myself mentally." 
"Nothing." 

Nagato answered like chattering glasswork; with fingers curled, she tilted her hand upwards by 
about seventy-five degrees, and extended her index finger again. She then said a single word, 

"It's coming." 

I turned my gaze to where Nagato's fingertip was pointing. 

"Uhn." 

I groaned unconsciously. 

The ocher haze was slowly coiling into a swirl. It was a whirlpool as the particles that made up 
the fog gathered into one place, grain by grain. I had a feeling like I was a pathogen that had just 
invaded a body. Somehow, an image sprung from somewhere of how this ocher swirl was taking 
it upon itself to carry out its duty like a white blood cell. My spirit's only solace was that 
Asahina-san's hand was warm. 

"I sense definite hostility." 

The freely talking Koizumi's voice, however, didn't make me any more strained, and I had no 
reaction as Nagato stood like an android that was in the middle of breaking down, her hand still 
stretched out. Nevertheless, I could not relax. These people might have the means to defend 
themselves, but I didn't. It looks like Asahina-san also didn't, as she was hiding behind me. This 
was just the right time to want to bring out a futuristic item, though. Don't you have a ray gun or 
something? 

"Carrying weapons is prohibited. It's dangerous." 

Asahina-san answered with a quivering voice. I can understand that. Even if [this] Asahina-san 
had a weapon, not only will she not be any help, she's likely to just go and forget it on the train. 
You would expect that she would improve a little as an adult, but when I think about it, [that] 
Asahina-san was also very much a careless person; she might just be a scatterbrain by nature. 

As I was thinking about that, a figure in the haze was gradually displaying the features of solid 
matter. There's probably some reason for this as well. I didn't want to know, but for some reason 
I understood what kind of shape the ocher mass was taking. 


...Hieee! 



Asahina-san was the only one being frightened. It's certainly not something that makes you feel 
like you were looking at a pretty sight, and it's something you rarely see in town. Even I, who 
had last seen it how-many- years ago, under the floorboards of my grandmother's house in the 
countryside, was silent for a while. 

Are you familiar with the insect known as the kamadouma? 

If you aren't, I'd like to show you the spectacle before my eyes. You'll get to know it well, down 
to the details. 

Because, this kamadouma had a length of about three meters. 

"What is this thing?" I asked. 

"It's a kamadouma, isn't it?" answered Koizumi. 

"I know that. At kindergarten age, I was a famous insect expert. Though I haven't seen the real 
thing, I knew how to differentiate between an uma-oi and a kutsuwamushi. That's okay, but what 
is this?" 

Nagato's answer seeped out like a trickle. 

"The creator of this space." 

"This thing?" 

"Yes." 

"Is this also Haruhi's doing?" 

"The origin is different. But what started it was her." 

As I was going to ask what it was again, I noticed that Nagato was still naively following my 
command. 

"...You can move now." 

"I see." 

Slipping her hand down, Nagato looked intently at the materializing giant kamadouma. The dark 
brown benjo ko-orogi was settling down on a spot several meters away from us. 



Are you familiar with the insect known as the kamadouma? If you aren't, I'd like to show you the 
spectacle before my eyes. 

"Well. While imperfect, it seems like I can use my power here." 

What Koizumi was holding in one hand was a red globe of light as big as a handball. Since the 
last time I saw it somewhere before, I had thought that I'd never see that ruby a second time. It 
seems like it had come out from his palm. 

"My strength is at ten percent of what it would be in closed space, here. Moreover, it seems like 
I'm not able to transform myself." 

For some reason, Koizumi turned to Nagato with the refreshing smile that I'd gotten tired of 
seeing and asked, 

"Was it determined that this much would suffice?" 


Nagato had no reaction. I went back to asking her. 

"Anyway, Nagato. What is that bug's true identity? And where is the president?" 

"That is a sub-species of data life-form. It is using the brain tissue of a young male student to 
heighten the probability of its existence." 

Koizumi put his finger on the middle of his forehead. He looked like he was considering 
something, and then appeared to be somewhat concentrating on those thoughts. Raising his face, 
Koizumi asked, 




By any chance, is the president inside this giant kamadoumal 


"Correct." 

"This kamadouma I see, this is the president's image of an object of fear, isn't it? If we defeat 

it, this differing space will collapse. Am I wrong?" 

"You are not mistaken." 

"It helps that it was an easily-understood metaphor. In that case, this'll be simple." 

But it wouldn't be simple if it wasn't easy to understand. Then let's just say that Asahina-san and 
I can understand it. 

"It doesn't seem to be the time for that, does it?" 

Without raising his last word, he put the red globe somewhere with a suave smile, and then 
Asahina-san was hanging on to my waist, somehow. The way things are going, "somehow" is 
always how it's going to be. 

"Hyoeee-" 

Asahina-san wasn't just trembling, she was taking away my range of mobility. Under these 
circumstances, I won't be able to escape, will I? 

"That won't be necessary, I hope. I'll finish it in a moment. I have such confidence, for some 
reason. It should be easier than hunting <avatars>." 

The kamadouma that had just finished materializing is not just going to be flying away any time 
soon, I suppose. How many meters can it jump, I wonder. I feel like estimating but let's not. 

I abruptly said. 

"Get on with it." 

"Roger that." 

Koizumi tossed the ruby upwards and struck it like he was serving a volleyball. The red handball 
flew accurately, crashing right into the front of the monster kamadouma , and made a sound like 
an exploding paper balloon. It was a stupid attack, but the opponent was stupid as well. Even 
though I had prepared for some kind of counterattack, the kamadouma did not escape, jump, or 
roar a mysterious sound, rather it just stayed there peacefully. 


Is it over? 



At Koizumi's question, Nagato gave her assent. It really did finish quickly. The giant 
kamadouma diffused to its original misty form, and then continued thinning steadily. The ocher 
haze that shimmered in all directions was disappearing as well. And so was the freezing 
sensation under my feet. 

As for our supposed compensation, a man in a familiar uniform had appeared. Falling on his 
back and facing upwards was the Computer Club's president. 

In front of the PC rack, his eyes were closed, looking like he had slipped off his chair. He 
seemed to be alive. Koizumi leaned over him from the side and put his hand on his neck, and 
gave me a nod. 

Nagato was standing before the bookshelves, gazing at Asahina-san, who was beside the bed 
looking dazed, and at me. 

We were in a room of a studio condominium. I wondered where that vast space could've gone. 

At any rate, it was all good. Whether it was gray or ocher, I've had enough of being trapped in 
wide spaces. 


"Approximately two-hundred-and-eighty million years ago." 

So began Nagato's explanation, a cosmic mystery of electro-magnetic waves, and if I were to 
break it up and boil it down, it would be as follows. 

It was the Permian or the Triassic period when [that thing] descended to Earth, and at the time 
there was nothing in the world for it to possess. Losing its basis for existence, it settled into 
hibernation for its self-preservation. Until an information accumulation body with which it can 
exist on earth appears. 

"It did not have the means to exist on the earth. Freezing all action, it settled into slumber." 

Before long, humans were born unto the world, and humans gave birth to computer networks. 
Though imperfect, utilizing that childish (according to Nagato) digital information network as a 
seedbed was feasible. But it was insufficient, and the thing remained at a half-awakened state. 
However, an incident occurred which prompted its awakening. Instead of an alarm clock, 
floating in the net was a single detonator. It carried information that could not be measured by 
normal numerical values. Data that does not exist in this planet. An alien world's information 
data. For the thing, that was the physical medium it had been anxiously waiting for 


Nagato ended her talk without flourish. 



Nagato, who was doing something with the president's home computer, displayed the SOS 
Brigade online site, and projected the damaged SOS Brigade emblem on the monitor as she was 
speaking. 

"The invocation sign drawn by Suzumiya Haruhi is the catalyst. It became the door." 

"...It was this SOS Brigade emblem, from before, this thing, this summoning magic circle or 
something?" 

"Yes." Nagato said with a nod of her head. "Converting this SOS Brigade crest into Earth 
standard, it holds approximately four-hundred-thirty-six terabytes of information." 

It can't be. That image data wasn't even ten kilobytes. But Nagato calmly said, 

"It does not correspond to any unit on Earth." 

"Amazing odds, aren't they? Because, even though it was a symbol that she had just happened to 
draw, it was a perfect fit. She truly is Suzumiya-san. Astronomical figures are as nothing." 

Looks like Koizumi is seriously impressed. However, I was seriously afraid. What was I afraid 
of? 

Most of the things Haruhi does come from mere ideas. Forming the SOS Brigade and assembling 
the members were like that. Asahina-san, who was perfectly suited to being a mascot character, 
Koizumi, who had transferred schools, and Nagato, who was there from the beginning. And as it 
turns out, Asahina-san was a time -traveler, Koizumi an esper, and Nagato a pseudo-alien. She's 
already accomplished too much. Actually, Koizumi would say it wasn't by chance, spouting 
some nonsense like it was because Haruhi had desired it. Even though I'm starting to believe just 
a little, I still won't go for it. Because I, myself, am a simple, ordinary person. That alone should 
be enough counter-proof. By Koizumi's theory, it would be strange if there were no electro- 
magnetic wave profile hidden in me. Though there was supposed to be... 

If there was another side to Haruhi's actions that I had thought meaningless, what then? She, 
herself, does not know the consequence. Like her own original letters, which she had casually 
pictured in her head, becoming some kind of message for aliens somewhere. Like a cat hitting a 
keyboard and producing meaningful sentences. What kinds of odds were there on such things? 

That troublesome girl named Suzumiya Haruhi, who easily breaks through the walls of 
probability and statistics, and unconsciously arrives at the correct solutions; I'd be better off if 
she had made me join the SOS Brigade because she considered me some kind of an errand boy. 
Yep, that's the thing. That's totally better than thinking that I, myself, have such an idiotic and 
enigmatic alter-ego. So, do I? Perhaps my background is that there is some kind of unpredictable 
and unusual ability within me that I do not know about. 


Is that why I was chosen? A secret me that I do not know about, frankly, does not exist. 



What scares me is the next point. 
Who am I? 


I shrugged, in an imitation of Koizumi. Ah well, as he says it. I, myself, am the one who 
understands my own part the most. The long and short of it is, I am the SOS Brigade's only 
conscience. There is no mistaking that one. My nature differs from that of the other three brigade 
members. I am in the SOS Brigade for the sake of persuading Haruhi to live a normal high 
school life. Aside from stopping her unlawful club activities, it is my duty to make her freely 
disband the brigade. If you think about it deeply, that is the fast-track to arriving at a peaceful 
world. No, it is the only straight track. 

Rather than changing how Haruhi thinks of the world, changing Haruhi's inner world would be 
simpler and would bother nobody else. 

Then again, if I hadn't given her that strange inspiration, there might not have been an SOS 
Brigade. So let's see, umm, it's a case-by-case thing. Show it somehow, huh. But I don't know 
what day that will be, and why I'd have to do such a thing. 

Let's put that aside for now. 

"So in the end, what was that kamadouma, really?" 

If I didn't ask this right now, the story will never end. In a tone that seemed to be saying that she 
was really exhaling carbon dioxide, Nagato answered, 

"Information life-form." 

"A relative of your patron?" 

"It branched off in the distant past. Though their origin is identical, these evolved differently, and 
went extinct." 

Or so they thought, but here was a survivor. It didn't have to hibernate on Earth, of all places. I 
wish it could've gone to bed somewhere around Neptune. It could’ve frozen itself so it could’ve 
fallen asleep. 

To think that the development of the internet would become a pseudo-demon's breeding grounds. 
I suddenly thought of something. Going near the bed, I asked the petite upper classman, 


Asahina-san, up to what extent have the computers of the future progressed? 



Eh... 


Asahina-san opened her lips and froze. At any rate, it was probably prohibited, so I wasn't 
expecting anything, but someone else answered. 

"Such primitive information networks will no longer be in use." 

Nagato said, not sensing the atmosphere. Pointing at the PC, she said, 

"For organic life-forms at the level of earthlings, inventing a system that does not depend on 
storage media is simple." 

Nagato's gaze moved horizontally. When it got to her, Asahina-san paled. 

Is that so? 

"That is... Umm..." 

Faltering, Asahina-san looked down. 

"I can't say..." 

In a whimpering voice, she said, 

"I can't affirm or deny it; I was not given the authority. I'm sorry." 

No, that's okay. No need to apologize, seriously. I don't particularly feel that I want to 

know Hey, Koizumi, why are you making such a disappointed face, is there something 

you don't like? 

To save Asahina-san, I decided to change the subject. Hmm, what could there be, ah yes. 
"Something's strange." 

After waiting until I had gathered everyone's attention on myself, I continued, 

"I was present when Haruhi was drawing that stupid portrait, but nothing was awakened. Why 
didn't that thing appear around the time Haruhi finished the picture?" 

The one who answered was Koizumi. 

"As for this room, it's because it had already been transformed into differing space for some 
time. Varying types of elements and force fields are battling and negating each other, and in 
contrast, it becomes just about normal. I guess you could say it's at the saturation point. Since 
various things have already met the fusion capacity, there is no room for further integration." 



What a theory. So what you're saying is that, the Literature Club room has become some kind of 
terrible den of evil? I hadn't noticed at all. 

"That's because ordinary people do not have such unnecessary sensors attached. That may be, but 
as it is, I think it's harmless. Probably." 

Ah well. However, though it's good if prevailing temperatures would just cool down, I wouldn't 
want to be acting strangely or looking for a rope to hang myself with before I knew it. 

"No need to worry, everything will be all right. Because Nagato-san, Asahina-san, and I are 
dutifully working hard so that would not happen." 

Are you sure this isn't happening because the three of you are working hard? 

Smiling, Koizumi said, "Ah well," then inclined his head as he turned up both his palms. 

I turned my eyes back to the computer screen. As I looked at the broken down symbol of the 
SOS Brigade, I felt uneasy for some reason. Manipulating the mouse to move the cursor, I 
scrolled to the bottom of the page. 

"Geh?!" 

The access counter was displayed. It had somehow returned to normal, and was banging out the 
number of visitors. The last time I had seen it, the number wasn't three figures. Now, our SOS 

Brigade Site's counter had... Ones-tens-hundreds-thousands Turned to almost three thousand. 

How could this be? Where did it get such exposure? 

"It placed hyperlinks on various locations." 

Nagato quietly said. 

"This information life-form did that in order to multiply. Exceedingly primitive. Its method was 
to copy its self-information into the brains of people who saw the sign, and create restricted 
space. It required as many humans as possible." 

"So then, the people who had seen it... The almost three thousand of them, will end up the same 
as the president?" 

"Negative. The data of the summoning crest had been damaged. The number of people who had 
viewed the correct information source is not many. " 

Though I had been thinking that the server was likely out-of-order, that might have actually 
helped. 


"How many people? Those idiots that clicked such a dubious link and looked fully at that 
marking." 



Eight people. Five of whom are North High students. 


So in that case, eight more people are trapped in ocher-colored space? In spaces governed, not 

just by kamadouma, but all sorts of metaphors? To help them well, we'll probably need to 

go. Koizumi asked Nagato for the addresses of those people (I wasn't surprised that Nagato knew 
those things somehow), and it seems like Asahina-san is also intending to follow the pair. If 
that's the case, then I guess it wouldn't do for me to not go as well. Though Haruhi did the worst 
of it, the one who had discharged this magic-circle-like thing on the net was me, so I'd better 
clean up my own mess. 

And also for the sake of clearing up this guilty feeling. 

Setting aside the victims from North High, it seems like we'll have to catch a ride at the 
Shinkansen somehow for the three other people that had to be rescued. 


So. 

It's the beginning of the exam break. The remaining act became nothing but waiting for summer 
vacation in the clubroom. 

As for Haruhi, when I had informed her that the club president had come to school, 

" Hmm . Really." 

Was all she said before flying out of the room, and is probably eating her heart out at the 
cafeteria right about now. Koizumi and Asahina-san have yet to come. 

By the way, in the case of the Haruhi-devised SOS Brigade symbol, I had fixed it by pasting on 
Nagato's retake. I was able to skillfully upload it this time, well, why was that, I wonder? It 
should be okay for people who see this to stick their eyes onto it from now on. It almost doesn't 
differ from Haruhi's clumsy illustration, but if you compare them carefully, you'll see that "ZOZ 
Brigade" is displayed. Having that as the only difference, it was at the brink of whether strange 
things would or would not appear. 

An epigram for the moment: I want to impulsively click the link to an unknown address, but 
how? 

Thinking about such things, I gazed absent-mindedly at Nagato, who had been reading a 
technical book lined with numbers at the table's edge. Watching Nagato's face, I happened to 
think of something. 



Though I didn't know when this person noticed Haruhi's summoning image, could she be the one 
who destroyed the data? 

One more thing; there was Kimidori Emiri-san, the one who brought this case to us. Just a while 
ago, when I went to inquire at the Computer Club's room, I heard that the club president had no 
girlfriend. He said so himself, seeming healthy, though he was troubled about having no memory 
of the past several days. Not at all having the appearance of having lied, he was decidedly agape 
when I had mentioned Kimidori-san's name. The president was not some versatile entertainer 
who could give such a real performance. 

I was suspicious. 

Was Kimidori-san's coming to the SOS Brigade really, truly, for a request? If you think about it, 
the timing was too good. Haruhi did her prank drawing, and I pasted it onto the site. Then some 
people who had seen it were taken to some information life-form in some different dimension. 
After inquiring about the story from the visiting Kimidori-san, we turned towards the club 
president's home. And then, somehow did some exterminating. 

It was a picture-perfect scenario. The one in the heart of all this was always Nagato. Though that 
all-purpose alien terminal having done something to Kimidori-san, which resulted in her having 
brought her case to us, would have been an elaborate method, I wouldn’t be surprised at all. 

Perhaps she had thought about staging a pretend-client to relieve Haruhi's boredom even just a 
little. If it was an incident of this level, Nagato could have finished it off by herself without 
having to involve any of us. Hasn't it been always like that? Without saying anything to anyone 
and keeping silently behind the curtains, could she have been preventing these strange things 
before they happened? 


i i 



r 


& 

A breeze blew in through the window, tossing Nagato's hair and the pages of her book. 



A breeze blew in through the window, tossing Nagato's hair and the pages of her book. Her white 
finger pressed softly down on the margin, her white face lowered; unmoving except for her eyes, 
which chased the book's letters. 

Or... Could it have been Nagato's wish to involve us? Living in a dreary room for years, an alien- 
made organic android. Only seemingly emotionless, could it be that she also has them? 

Those feelings of loneliness one has when secluded. 


Lone Island Syndrome 

Lone Island Syndrome 


The scene before me is so shocking that I have totally forgotten the pain in my shoulders. 

Right now I'm lying on the floor, unable to even get up, as I'm too stunned by what I see. The 
reason I can't move is because something as heavy as an anchor is on my back, and I can't 
remove it, but that doesn't matter to me right now. Koizumi, who was above me as we burst the 
door open and is now lying on top of me, is probably just as stunned as I am. Get off me! I didn't 
even have the wits to tell him that. You can imagine how astonished I was. 

How can this be possible? I can't believe this is actually happening. This is no laughing matter. 
What should we do? 

A bright light flashed outside the window. A few seconds later, the sound of thunder roared 
through my stomach. A true thunderstorm. It's been covering this island since yesterday. 

" How can this be?" 

I heard a groan. That would be Arakawa-san, who burst open the door alongside me and 
Koizumi, and fell to the ground together with us. 

Koizumi finally got off my back. I rolled over and sat upright. 


I look once again at the unbelievable scene before me. 


On the carpet near the door lies a man who has fallen backwards just like I did. He is none other 
than the middle-aged owner of this mansion, who did not come down to the dining hall this 
morning. We recognized him by the suit he was wearing, it was the same suit he wore yesterday 
after bidding us good night. The only person to wear a suit unnecessarily in this midsummer 
island would be him. He is the employer of Arakawa-san, and the owner of this island and 
mansion: 

Tamaru Keiichi-san. 

Keiichi-san lay on the ground with a shocked expression, not moving a muscle. It is absolutely 
normal for him not to move, because it seems like he's already dead. 

How did I know this? Well, the answer was obvious. The object on his chest looked very 
familiar. It was the handle of the fruit knife that was inside the fruit basket from the dining hall 
during dinner last night. 

I can bet with you, that attached to that handle is a sharp metal blade, or it would have been 
impossible for it to stand upright on a person's chest. In other words, the knife is thrust into 
Keiichi-san's chest. 

I don't suppose anyone can live if they've had a knife stabbed straight into their heart? 

And right now that's the status of Keiichi-san. 

"KYAA " 

From the broken door behind me came a small terrified scream. I turned and saw Asahina 
covering her mouth with her hands. Nagato stood behind Asahina, who was slowly retreating 
behind and clutching Nagato's shoulders. Nagato looked at me with her ever calm expression, 
and then lowered her head as though in deep thought. 

Of course, wherever we go, she would be there. 

"Kyon, that person could he be " 

Haruhi seemed to be shocked as well, sticking her head from Asahina's side to see what was 
going on, and staring at Keiichi-san at eternal rest, with her dark cat-like eyes. 

"Dead?" 

It's quite rare for her to speak so softly, and with a small tingle of anxiety. I turned and was about 
to say something, only to see Koizumi, his usual cheery smile replaced with a confused look. 
Mori-san the maid also stood in the corridor. 



Only one person, who was in the mansion all day yesterday, was now missing. 


A room that needs the door burst open in order to enter, a dead owner, and a missing person. 
What does this all mean? 

"I say, Kyon " 

Haruhi spoke again, her face showing an unfamiliar look of discomfort. I even had the illusion 
that she was about to lean into my chest. 

Another lightning flash, illuminating the whole room. The thunderstorm that raged from 
yesterday was beginning to calm down. The fierce waves smacked down upon the island shores, 
creating a terrifying sound effect along with the thunder. 

The owner of a lone island, lying dead inside a sealed room with a knife stabbed through his 
chest, in the middle of a thunderstorm. This is the scene I was seeing. 

I can't help but think. 

Hey, Haruhi. 

Did you create all this? 

I recalled the journey leading the SOS Brigade to this scene. 

Back to a few days before summer vacation began 


It was midsummer, in the middle of July. The sun was so hot that I wished it would take a 
vacation for once. 

As usual, I was hanging out in our underground headquarters, formerly the Literature Club room, 
enjoying Asahina's tea. Though I had recovered from the results of the mid-term tests, once I 
started thinking about the impending revision classes, I could no longer relax. At that moment, 
the only choice I had was to escape from it all. 



In the blink of an eye, I thought up various ways to convince myself that the reality I'm in is all a 
lie. As I pondered which one to use 


"Excuse me are you alright?" 

I awoke from the dream of myself being an alien paratrooper, parachuting from the back of the 
moon and storming the parliament building. 

"You look so gloomy today is my tea not good enough?" 

"Not at all." 

I answered. Your tea is still as sweet as honey from the sky, even though it's brewed using 
discount tea leaves. 

"That's wonderful." 

Asahina, dressed in a summer maid costume, breathed a sigh of relief. She gave a gentle smile, 
so I answered her with a smile of my own. Your happiness is my happiness. Not even a sage 
traveling through the most remote mountains could find an Elixir as effective as Asahina's smile. 
My mind is now clearer than the surface of Lake Mashu in Hokkaido. I can even hear angels 
blowing their trumpets 

I felt like spreading my passion to everyone, as St. Francis of Assisi passionately did when 
preaching to his sister birds, but in the end I gave up. Not because I couldn't be bothered with the 
use of elegant phrases, but rather at this moment an annoying person came barging in with his 
melodious tones... 

"Hey, everyone! How were your mid-term tests?" 

Koizumi placed the Monopoly board he brought on the table while asking me this irrelevant 
question. Thanks to him, I've now returned to the dark side of the moon, hiding in the satellite 
orbit thinking how to make all these thoughts stop. Why can't you just play your Monopoly 
quietly? You ought to learn from Nagato, sitting peacefully in the corner reading her book. 

Opening a hardback book as thick as an encyclopedia, Nagato sat on the foldable chair, in her 
summer sailor uniform. She had her eyes fixed on the book with that glass statue-like face of 
hers. From a certain perspective, she is a digitized existence, yet she seems to love absorbing 
physical data. I wonder if there's some specific reason for that? 


Now I think about it, how can everyone in our club have so much free time on their hands? 

School finished early today, classes having already ended in the morning. Yet why is everyone 
still gathered here? Myself included, but I have a justifiable reason to be here! If I didn't drink 



Asahina's tea at least once every day, I'd basically become a zombie. Thanks to that, I usually 
have to suffer withdrawal symptoms during the weekends. 

Just joking. You think I'm serious? It's just that I've learned something since I came to high 
school - some people tend to take jokes very seriously. I say this from my experiences of the past 
few months, so I can't be wrong. One needs to draw a fine line between joking and being serious, 
or something terrible might happen. 

Just like my situation right now. 

I opened my bag and took out the ham sandwich I got from the Welfare Society as my snack. 

As we count down to the beginning of summer vacation, there has to be a reason for us to gather 

here or not. I say that because the SOS Brigade was created without any reason at all, in fact, 

it was created precisely for its lack of reason. It would be even more troublesome if it did have a 
reason. Instead of doing something really stupid, it's better that it remains in its present 
meaningless state, because that way I don't have to think much. 

"I think I'll have a snack as well." 

Asahina, so meticulous that she made her own tea, took out a cute looking lunchbox and sat 
down opposite me. 

"Don't mind me, I've already eaten in the canteen." 

Koizumi declined. No one asked you. While Nagato's hunger is more about reading books than 
about eating. 

Asahina picked up the rice, which had a smiley face drawn with cream, with her chopsticks and 
said, 

"Where's Suzumiya-san? She hasn't arrived yet." 

Don't ask me. She's probably somewhere hunting for grasshoppers. It's summer after all. 

Koizumi answered for me, 

"I saw her in the school canteen. Her appetite sure is amazing. If all the food she consumed was 
converted into nutrition, I wonder how many ergs that'd be?" 

I'm not going to calculate such things. If she intends to lock herself up in the canteen, then she 
can stay till evening. 


Don't think so. She said she has something important to announce today. 



I just don't understand, how can you remain so cheerful? Whatever it is that she announces can't 
be anything beneficial to society, can it? Is your memory storage lower than a five inch floppy 
disk's? 


"Besides, how do you know about that anyway?" 

Koizumi said casually, 

"Hmm, I wonder how? I could tell you, but Suzumiya-san would prefer to tell you herself. It 
would be a great problem if I spoiled her mood by telling you before she does. I'd best stay silent 
for now." 

"I'm not interested anyway." 

"Is that so?" 

"Yup, because from your tone, it seems that idiot is up to something stupid again. I don't know 
how many more minutes my peace of mind will last, but I'm sure it's going to get less peaceful 
soon " 

As I was about to continue, I was interrupted by a slamming sound from the violent opening of 
the door. 

"Great! Everyone's here!" 

Haruhi's eyes shone as bright as a spectrometer. 

"As today we're having an important meeting, I intend to have anyone arriving after me be 
treated as target practice for can throwing from now on as punishment. But it seems you've all 
begun to nurture that team spirit already. This is excellent!" 

Needless to say, I never knew there was an important meeting for today. 

"You sure have a lot of free time." 

I was trying to humble her. 

"You listen. The secret to eating in the school canteen is to go just before they close. By then the 
old ladies will scoop more for you. But the timing is very important, it'd be useless if you went 
when they were completely sold out. So today's a lucky day!" 

"Really?" 

For someone like me who rarely goes to the canteen for lunch, this new piece of information 
wasn't of that much use, no matter how generously it had been given. 



Haruhi sat down on the commander's seat. 


"Anyway, let's leave that aside." 

"It was you who started that topic." 

Haruhi ignored me and called out to Asahina, who was eating carefully with her chopsticks. 
"Mikuru-chan, what do you think of when you mention summer?" 

"Huh?" 

Asahina covered her mouth, munching and swallowing the food that she had cooked. 

"Summer um the O-Bon Festival?" 

Haruhi blinked her eyes nonstop at such a nostalgically traditional answer. 

"'O-Bon Festival'? What on earth's that? Have you got it wrong? I'm not asking you that, what 
I'm saying is, when it comes to summer, what's the first thing that comes to mind?" 

What the hell are you talking about? 

Haruhi said matter-of-factly, 

"Summer vacation! Does that need thinking?" 

This way of thinking is a bit too straightforward. 

"Then what comes with summer vacation?" 

Haruhi asked her second question, and then looked at her watch while mimicking the sound of 
the clock ticking, "Tick tock, tick tock." 

Perhaps feeling pressurized by her, Asahina began to think frantically. 

"Um, that is, ah the sea!" 

"That's right! Close enough. And what comes with the sea?" 

What the hell's this? A guessing game? 

Asahina tilted her head, 

"Sea, sea ah, pickled fish?" 



"Wrong! Summer would be over by the time you guessed right. What I'm saying is, we need to 
go on a field trip for the summer holiday!" 

I stared and got more and more pissed at Koizumi's smiling face. Was this the important 
announcement you were talking about? 

"Field trip?" 

I asked slowly, Haruhi nodded energetically, 

"Yes, a field trip." 

Maybe it's normal for school clubs to organize field trips or whatever, but is it really okay for us 
to have one as well? She can't be having us go deep into the mountains to search for Unidentified 
Mysterious Animals (UMAs) that will never be found, can she? 

I looked at Asahina, Koizumi and Nagato in turn, and observed a stunned face, a smiling face, 
and a blank face from them respectively. I then said, 

"A field trip, huh field trip for what?" 

"For the SOS Brigade." 

"I meant, what will we be doing?" 

"Having a field trip." 

What? 

Going on a field trip solely for the purpose of experiencing a field trip. 

Isn't that the same as saying "my headache hurts", "the tragic play is tragic", or "frying a fried 
fish"? 

"What does it matter? In other words, the means and ends of this activity are the same. Besides, 
of course a headache hurts, who's heard of anyone enjoying a headache?" 

I don't know whether there's something wrong with Haruhi's grammar, or if she's speaking in a 
different dialect. But the real problem lies with the field trip itself. 

"Where do you intend to go?" 

"I'm going to a lone island, and it has to be a lone island in the middle of the ocean." 

I don't remember ever reading "Two Years' Vacation” as a summer vacation report. Just what on 
earth did she read to come up with such an idea? 



"I've thought of a few locations. 


Haruhi's excitement showed on her face. 

"I was troubled by whether to go to the mountains or the sea. At first I thought it'd be more 
convenient to go to the mountains, but the only time to get ourselves isolated in a hillside 
mansion is during a blizzard in winter. Besides, that's way too hard." 

Maybe you can try going to Greenland no, the question is why must we do such a thing? 

"You want to go to a hillside mansion just so you can get stuck there?" 

"Well yeah! Or it wouldn't be fun. But let's forget about the mountains! We'll save that for the 
winter field trip. This summer we're going to the sea, no, a lone island!" 

Don't be so obsessed with lone islands. I thought, but I could find no reason for opposition. It'd 
be useless for me to oppose her anyway, and for this time of year, the sea sounds more charming; 
besides, there should be seaside spas in these lone islands far away from the mainland, right? 

"Of course there are! Right, Koizumi?" 

"Hmm, I should hope so. Though it's a natural seaside spa without any lifeguards or food stalls." 

I quickly looked at Koizumi, with my eyes full of suspicion. Why are you helping her recite all 
this? 

"That's because " 

Koizumi's explanation got interrupted by Haruhi. 

"Because the location for the field trip this time is being provided by none other than Koizumi!" 

Haruhi stuck her hands inside the desk drawer, and took out a colored armband. She then used a 
felt-tip pen and wrote "Vice Commander" on it. 

"As a result of this achievement, Koizumi-kun, you should feel honored. I hereby promote you to 
SOS Brigade Vice Commander!" 

"I am grateful for this honor." 

Koizumi gracefully accepted the armband. He glanced at me and gave me a wink. Let me set this 
straight, I am not the slightest bit jealous at all. Who'd want such a weird present? 

"That's it. This is a four day three night luxury tour! Let's get ourselves mentally prepared!" 



Haruhi gave a look saying "That's all folks!" Thinking we're all happy with this decision, which 
was of course, never the case. 

"Just a moment." 

I stepped forward and spoke on behalf of Asahina and Nagato. 

"Where is this island? Provide? What the hell's this? Why is Koizumi providing all this for us?" 

Koizumi, defined by Haruhi as a mysterious transfer student, is of course an unnatural person, 
and this 'Organization' that he belongs to is even more suspicious. Could they be taking us to 
some secret research lab of theirs, trying to perform live autopsies on Haruhi and Nagato? 

"I have a very rich distant relative." 

Koizumi gave a harmless smile. 

"He's so rich that he can buy himself an uninhabited island and build a mansion on it. The fact is, 
he's already built the mansion. It just went through the opening ceremony a few days ago, but as 
no one was willing to travel that far to such a place, he's decided to invite some friends and 
relatives over. And this is where I came in." 

Is the island that bizarre? I started to recall the story of "Robinson Crusoe" I read a long time 
ago. 

"No, it was supposed to have been an uninhabited island. Summer vacation is approaching, and 
if the SOS Brigade is going on a trip, it would be more fun if we go there together. The owner of 
the mansion seems to welcome us coming as well." 

"And that's how it is!" Said Haruhi. 

She gave out a smile that would get us in trouble. 

"A lone island! And a huge mansion! This is a rare situation! I can't wait to go there. This is the 
perfect stage for the SOS Brigade!" 

"Why?" I asked, "What does a lone island and mansion have to do with your favorite mysterious 
events?" 

Alas, Haruhi is already lost in her own world. 

"A lone island in the middle of the sea! And a mansion! Koizumi, your relative is really 
understanding ! Hmm, I think I'll get along well with him. " 


The only people who can get along well with Haruhi are mostly weirdos. The mansion owner 
must be a very weird person. 



I couldn't tell if Nagato had heard what Haruhi had announced; it was easy with Asahina, who 
had stopped eating, with an astonished look on her face. 


"Don't worry, Mikuru-chan. You can have all the pickled fish you want there! Am I right?" 

"I'll try and arrange it." Said Koizumi. 

"That's how it is." 

Haruhi took another colored armband from the drawer of the commander's desk. I have no idea 
how many she's made. 

"Towards the lone island! A lot of interesting things await us there. As for our mission there, I've 
already decided!" 

She said while writing on the armband with the felt-tip pen. The letters looked scribbled, but it 
seemed to say "Master Detective". 


"I'd like to hear what you're plotting." 

"Nothing really." 

Don't try to deny it without even flinching! 

Haruhi left after being satisfied with her announcement, Asahina and Nagato also left the club 
room and headed home. Only Koizumi and I remained behind. 

Koizumi flicked his hair parting and said, 

"It's true. Even if I didn't suggest it, Suzumiya-san was bound to find somewhere to go anyway, 
am I right? Since summer vacation is quite long. Would you rather go searching for Tsuchinoko 
in the mountains instead of walking along the seaside?" 

"A Tsuchinoko... ? ...Forget it, don't actually go and explain what it is. I know that much, at 
least." 

"Three days ago, I happened to find Suzumiya-san in the bookstore in front of the station. I saw 
her staring hard at a map of Japan while looking through some sort of mysterious magazine that 
deals with Unidentified Mysterious Animals." 

A field trip in search of UMAs, huh? This doesn't sound like a big deal, but the scary thing is that 
Haruhi would actually expect to find something mysterious. 



"It seems Suzumiya-san intended to return home with something. I had a feeling she would start 
with Mt. Hiba first. That being the case, it would be better for us to have a sunbath by the 
seaside. Besides, I already had somewhere in mind." 

How coincidental for you to have somewhere in mind. On the other hand, however, between 
watching the girls in swimsuits by the seaside; and climbing the hills in the bright sunlight, the 
difference is like heaven and hell. 

"The key is that this is a privately owned uninhabited island, a so-called 'closed circle'." 

This I had to ask about. Asking about what you do not understand is the best policy. 

"What's a 'closed circle'?" 

Koizumi's smile was not that annoying. If it was, then the problem lay with the other person's 
eyes. Even I knew that. 

"Perhaps there's a similarity " Koizumi smiled and paused for a while, "I guess it would be 

more appropriate to call it a 'Sealed Reality'?" 

I didn't know how funny my expression was, but Koizumi was giggling. 

"I was kidding. A 'Closed circle' is a mystery term. It means a situation in which all direct 
contact with the outside world has been lost." 

Explain so that everyone can understand! 

"This is a setting most commonly seen in classic detective novels. For example, if we were to go 
skiing before the harsh winter " 

Oh yeah, didn't Haruhi say she wanted to go to the snowy mountains? 

"Going to the snowy mountains for a field trip is not too bad, but what if then, the largest 
blizzard ever on record were to arrive?" 

If we were to go there, one would check the weather report first. 

"That's the problem. We're surrounded by the blizzard and thick layers of snow and there's no 
way off the mountain, and there's no way for people to come up as well." 

Then think of something! 

"There's no other way out. That's why it's called a 'closed circle'. Under these circumstances, 
something usually happens. I guess, the most common event is that someone gets murdered. So 
the stage is set. There is no way out for the suspect and the other people, and no new characters 



can enter from the outside, let alone the police. It wouldn't be fun if we had to resort to scientific 
forensics to rat out the suspect." 


As usual, what is this guy trying to say? 

"Ah, sorry about that. In other words, Suzumiya-san's theme for this trip is to be involved in such 
a mysterious event." 

That's why she chose a lone island? 

"Yes, a lone island. I was thinking, she'd probably conjure a condition in which the island is 
somehow sealed off, and during this time when no one can escape, someone would get 
murdered. A hilltop mansion in the middle of a blizzard or a lone island in the middle of a 
tropical storm are the perfect ingredients for a 'closed circle', where there is no way for the 
authorities to get involved. The ultimate stage for a crime mystery." 

"You seem to be enjoying this." 

Haruhi doesn't just lose control during the summer, but you don't have to go encourage her 
further. And I'm not saying this out of jealousy of not getting the vice-commander armband. 

"Because I like such a stage as well." 

I didn't want to argue with him, but I had to say this, I don 't like it at all. 

Koizumi ignored my preference, and continued as though reading a thesis, 

"Think about those 'Master Detectives'. Normally, those with normal lives rarely get involved in 
inexplicable murder cases." 

"Makes sense." 

"Yet why is it that these novel detectives happen to get involved in these puzzling cases one after 
another? Do you know the reason?" 

"Because if they didn't, there would be no story to write." 

"Exactly, your answer is absolutely correct. These things only happen in the fictional world of 
novels. Yet to say such realistic things would just take the fun out of it, since Suzumiya-san 
intends to be in the world of fiction." 

Thinking hard, that was the reason why she founded the SOS Brigade. 

"In order to encounter such surreal and mysterious events, one needs to go to a suitable location. 
Because that is how the detectives in these novels end up in these events. So, one must become a 
major player on the stage itself. If one desires to have these events come to their doorstep, they 



must either have a relative who's a brilliant detective, or they must be a police officer themselves, 
or wait till they publish a series of novels themselves." 

That makes sense. I know Nagato loves science fiction novels, but I never knew she liked 
mystery novels as well. As for Haruhi, I guess she probably loves both. 

"For an outsider to play the role of a detective, one needs to be dragged unexpectedly into these 
circumstances, and to solve them in the swiftest manner possible." 

"They can't just have things incidentally happening to them all of a sudden." 

Koizumi nodded, 

"Yes, reality seldom develops like in novels. The chances of an intriguing sealed room murder in 
the school are very low. So, Suzumiya-san must be thinking of going to a place with more 
favorable circumstances." 

The idiom "turning something on its head" came to mind suddenly. 

"And that location is the stage for this field trip - the lone island. For some reason, most people 
would find this the most suitable stage for a murder mystery." 

What do you mean by "most people"? Your "most" is probably a minority. 

"Thus, strange events often happen where master detectives appear. This is not coincidental, but 
rather, these detectives possess the super natural power to summon events to themselves. It is not 
the events that draw the detectives, but rather it is the presence of these detectives that creates 
such events." 

I looked at Koizumi with a look as though I had just stepped on a sea slug. 

"Are you fully conscious?" 

"I'm always suitably conscious. I didn't come up with the connections between detectives and 
closed circles, I'm just trying to convey Suzumiya-san's way of thinking. To put it simply, the 
whole reason for this trip is because she wants to become a detective." 

What does she need to do to become a master detective? It might be possible if she were to script 
and direct the whole thing, playing both the suspect and the detective at the same time. 

"At least this is better than having to go to the mountains to search for Tsuchinoko or Bigfoot. I 
only told Suzumiya-san that I know someone who's built a mansion on an island and is inviting 
guests. Of course, I don't expect anyone to get murdered." 


Koizumi's relaxed smile and even the shrugging of his shoulders has got me worked up. 



"I'm just trying to provide Suzumiya-san with a little entertainment. Otherwise, who knows what 
other ideas she might conjure out of her boredom? If that's the case, it would be easier for us to 
handle things by providing a stage beforehand." 

"Us?" 

"This has nothing to do with the 'Organization'. Though I did make a report just to be safe. I may 
be an esper, but I'm still a high school student. Furthermore, there's nothing wrong with a field 
trip. It's quite normal for high school students. Isn't going on a trip with your close friends 
something worth looking forward to?" 

It would be fine if Haruhi was looking forward to having a normal trip. I wouldn't object if she'd 
chosen a normal hot spring or a beach near the mainland, but why pick a lone island? This is 
Haruhi we're talking about, she'd probably bring in two typhoons along the way. 

Forget it, no matter how far-fetched she is, she's not the sort of person who would wish for 

anyone to get killed, or there would be bodies piling up everywhere in North High already. There 
seemed to be other important things to consider, so I went into deep thought. 

Four days and three nights by the seaside in summer. A white beach, and probably some relaxing 
sunshine. I think I can endure such a summer, bring it on, Mr Sunshine! 

Ah yes, I'd better prepare myself for the mesmerizing sight of Asahina in her swimsuit. 


The mansion owner was extremely generous in providing free lodging and food for us. We only 
needed to pay for the return trip from the island itself. 

And so we met by the ferry pier at the harbor, awaiting our ferry's arrival. 

Haruhi couldn't wait to get going already. We just had the end-of-term assembly yesterday, in 
other words, today is the first day of summer vacation. It seems that Koizumi's relatives didn't 
really mind when we chose to go, but to set off right on the first day of vacation is proof of 
Haruhi's anxiousness. Any hope of enjoying my summer vacation peacefully without ever having 
to see Haruhi's face has now been shattered. This is all because of the presence of Haruhi, and it 
is also the meaning of her existence. 

"It's been a long time since I rode a ferry." 

Haruhi slid her shades down and gazed at the grey sea in the distance by the pier. Her dark silky 
hair flew in the sea breeze as she stood by the edge of the boarding dock. 


Such a huge ship! It's so incredible, for such a large ship to float on water. 



Asahina, carrying two suitcases with her hands, looked up in awe at the ferry. She wore a white 
one-piece summer dress and a straw hat on her head. This made her look very cute. Having the 
laces of a hat tied under her chin suits her. Her eyes glimmered like a child's, looking at the old 
ferry as though it were some ancient wooden boat dug up by archaeologists. Perhaps ships don't 
float on water in her age. 


Nagato's face remained blank as usual, staring at the corporate logo printed on the hull of the 
ferry. For once, Nagato was not wearing her uniform, but a checkered sleeveless shirt. Carrying a 
yellowish-green umbrella, she gave the impression of a weak girl who just came out of the 
hospital. I wish I had an instant camera with me. If I took a picture of this, I could probably sell it 
for a high price to Taniguchi. 

"The weather's excellent. This is great, you could say it's the perfect weather for sailing, though 
we'll be in second class today." Koizumi said. 

"That suits us just fine." 

It's not like the cabins are that big anyway. Even though this is going to be a long cruise, we're 
still ten years too early to have a private cabin to ourselves. This is, after all, a high school field 
trip. 

Technically, this trip isn't a study trip or anything of the sort. A trip just for the sake of having 
one can't really be counted as meaningful. Usually there'd be a consulting teacher accompanying 
a club's field trip activities. There is none for the SOS Brigade. This is because we're still not 
recognized by the school as a formal club. It would be surprising if a teacher had come along. In 
North High, you can't even form an association if you don't have a consulting teacher. In my 
speculation, even if a teacher did agree to be consultant to the SOS Brigade, Haruhi would 
probably find that unnecessary. Because if she didn't, she would have abducted one already, just 
as she abducted us. 

As I stretched my muscles, Asahina walked slowly to my side. Her round eyes became even 
rounder. 

"How does that huge ship float?" 

How does it float? Besides its buoyancy, I don't think there's any other way. Don't they teach 
physics in Asahina's age? 

"Really? Buoyancy.. .you're right. I see. So this is what they mean by 'one is usually unaware of 
their surroundings'..." 

What are you talking about? Asahina nodded her head with a serious look on her face. 


Let me try asking. Just one question wouldn't hurt. 



Ahem Asahina-san, do ships in the future float using state-of-the-art technology? 


"Um you think I can tell you?" 

Having heard her put it that way, I shook my head. I didn't think so. I tried asking another 
question, 

"There's got to be a sea?" 

Asahina held the tip of her hat and tilted her head, 

"Um, yeah, there's a sea." 

"That's great to hear." 

I don't know whether she comes from the near future or distant future, but it certainly is pleasing 
to hear that the earth didn't turn into a desert in the future, that is, if the sea is cleaner than it is 
now. 

I had wanted to get more useful information from this time traveler. 

"Kyon! Mikuru-chan! What're you doing? It's time!" 

Haruhi shouted loudly, telling us it was time to board. 


Speaking of which, I was late for the meeting today. As I was about to leave in the morning, I 
found my bag to be heavier than usual, so I unzipped it and had a look. Instead of my clothes and 
bathroom kit, my sister was inside. The night before, she kept shouting, "I wanna go too!", after I 
let it slip that I was going on a trip with Haruhi and the rest. I spent two whole hours trying to 
cheer her up, but I never thought she would sneak into my bag. I yanked my sister out of the bag 
and interrogated her on where she hid my stuff. It took some time trying to do a good cop, bad 
cop routine on her as she chose to remain silent. "If you don't tell me, then I'm not gonna buy any 
presents for you! I'll use all that money to buy lunchboxes for the SOS Brigade!" 

The SOS Brigade gathered in the corner of the second class cabin, chatting while eating the 
lunchboxes I bought. Actually, Haruhi and Koizumi were the only ones talking the whole time. 

"How much longer till we get there?" 

"Judging from the speed of this ferry, I'd say about six hours. According to the plans, they'll be 
waiting for us at the harbor. Then we'll ride on their speedboat for about half an hour before 



arriving at the lone island with the mansion on top of it. I've never been there before, so I'm not 
sure what it's like there." 

"I bet it must be a weird mansion. Do you know the name of the architect?" Haruhi asked. 

"I didn't ask that much, I do remember him saying he hired an architect to build it." 

"I can't wait." 

"It'd be great if it could match your expectations, but I'm not too sure myself as I've never seen it 
before. But for someone to build a private mansion on an uninhabited island, the mansion must 
be unique in some way. That would be perfect." 

Said Koizumi, but I certainly wasn't hoping for that. If the blueprint design was as Haruhi had 
imagined it, then the architect who drew it must have been awake for three whole nights, 
suffering from alcohol poisoning, and nodding occasionally while drawing drowsily. I don't want 
to stay in such a house, a normal inn will do for me. Just a traditional Japanese breakfast for me, 
thank you very much. If the mansion had a name, Haruhi would probably become a serial killer 
just to trigger some events. 

"An island! And a mansion! There's nothing better than this for an SOS Brigade trip. At this rate, 
we're headed for a perfect summer vacation." 

As Haruhi got more animated, the rest of the brigade could only watch in silence. 


Besides rocking along the waves on the ship's deck, there was nothing else to do, so we followed 
Koizumi's suggestion and played Go Fish. Koizumi, who lost from start to finish, had to buy 
drinks for the five of us. I collected my drink and drank silently. 

I just couldn't help but have a bad feeling about this lone island awaiting us. Asahina seemed to 
feel the same as well. 

Haruhi said after finishing her juice in two gulps, 

"Mikuru-chan, you look terrible, are you seasick?" 

"No that ah, maybe." 

Asahina replied, Haruhi then said, 


"That won't do, you'd better get some fresh air. It's great enjoying the sea breeze out on the deck. 
C'mon, let's go!" 



She then grabbed Asahina's hand and smiled, 


"Don't worry, I won't push you into the sea. Hmm though that's not a bad idea. The sudden 

disappearance of a female passenger." 

"Eh!?" 

Haruhi slapped Asahina's stiffened shoulders. 

"Just kidding! That wouldn't be fun at all. It'd be exciting if the ship were to hit an iceberg or get 
attacked by a giant squid. I'm not the sort that likes to get everyone in trouble just so I can have 
fun!" 

I think I'd better check where the lifeboats are located. Of course, I don't suppose an iceberg 
would come that near to the seas of Japan in the middle of summer, but it's possible that 
unknown marine creatures might attack suddenly. I glared at Koizumi: If a monster attacks, 
we're counting on you! I don't know how he read my thoughts, but he replied with a smile, while 
Nagato just stared at the wall. 

Haruhi continued endlessly, 

"The best events are of course left for the island! Koizumi, will I be disappointed?" 

"There's no exact definition of what constitutes an event." 

Koizumi said smoothly, 

"I, too, am hoping for an enjoyable trip." 

Koizumi revealed an enigmatic smile. Though this was his usual expression, I stared hard at the 
esper, trying to figure out what was behind that smiling mask. I soon gave up. This guy's smile is 
like Nagato's blank expression - impossible to read anything from. Really, he ought to show 
more emotion as well. Of course, not as blatantly as Haruhi. 

Haruhi hummed a song she made up herself while dragging Asahina away from the cabin. 
Asahina turned around repeatedly, hoping that I would come along; perhaps I was thinking too 
much then, but I didn't want to ruin Haruhi's mood, so I let them go. 

No matter how insane Haruhi is, just before Asahina fell into the sea, she would save her. I 
prayed and stared at the ceiling, then used my bag as a pillow and lay down. It's going to be an 
early morning tomorrow, so I'd better get some sleep. 



I dreamed about myself doing something strange, but just as I was about to wonder what it was, I 
was woken up by the commanding airwaves of Haruhi, 

"Stop sleeping, you idiot! Get up already! Are you really in the mood for this trip at all? If you're 
already sleeping on the trip, then what can we expect from you?" 

It seems while I was asleep, the ferry had almost arrived at the interchange island. I felt as if I 
had just suffered an irretrievable loss. 

"The first step is the most important! You lack the heart to enjoy things. Look at everyone else. 
Their expectations for this trip show in the glittering in their eyes!" 

I followed the direction of Haruhi's finger towards the three servants preparing to carry their 
luggage off the ferry. 

The smiling youth said, 

"Give him a break, Suzumiya-san, he's trying to save up energy for the trip. Who knows, he's 
probably going to spend all night thinking of how to entertain us next!" 

I listened to Koizumi's irrelevant explanation, while observing Nagato's puppet like face and 
Asahina's puppy dog eyes, trying to find the so called glitter within their eyes. 

"We're there already?" I muttered. 

On a long boat trip, with the SOS Brigade members around. ..No, let's leave the others aside. I 
had given in to my desire and taken a long nap. As a result I missed my chance to spend time 
with Asahina inside the elegant looking cabin. 

Damn, this is so frustrating. How could I let my summer vacation be over like that? So far, my 
only memories of this vacation have been playing Go Fish. Shouldn't I have been doing 
something more interesting on the ferry? Like sharing each other's thoughts on the deck while 
the sea wind blew softly? 

I really felt like kicking my past self in the chest for being so sleepy. 

I clutched my half-drowsy head as I condemned myself endlessly. 

Click! 

A bright light made me go dizzy. 

I turned my gaze towards the direction of the sound, only to see Asahina holding a camera, with 
an adorable smile on her angelic face, 


Hee hee! I've taken a picture of you waking up. 



She had the face of a pre-school kid who just pulled off a prank. 


"I've also taken photos of you sleeping. You must have slept soundly." 

Suddenly, I felt revived. Why was Asahina secretly taking pictures of me? Could it be that she 
wanted my photos that badly? Does she intend to place my photo in a cute frame and put it by 
her pillow, so she can say 'good night' to me every night? Yes, that's not a bad thought at all. 

Seriously, if you had wanted my photo, I would have gladly posed for you! Even if I had to give 
you my photo album which I misplaced somewhere, I wouldn't have minded at all. 

However, as I was making such a suggestion, Asahina handed the instant camera to Haruhi. 

"Kyon, what are you grinning at? You look like a moron. Best wipe that off your face." 

Haruhi started looking as if she wanted to sell some exclusive pictures to a newspaper. She then 
stuffed the camera into her bag. 

"I've had Mikuru-chan be the stand-in photographer for the SOS Brigade. These photos are not 
for play! What I want is a record of the SOS Brigade's activities for our descendants to revisit. 
This silly girl just felt like taking useless pictures, so she has to listen to my directions from now 
on." 


Then, what informational value is there in taking pictures of me sleeping and waking up? 

"Since you have no sense of urgency, I'm going to spread pictures of you sleeping like a moron 
all over as a cautionary tale ! Listen ! It's immoral and against the brigade rules for the 
subordinates to sleep soundly when the commander isn't sleeping!" 

Haruhi stared at me with a face I wasn't sure was laughing or scowling. I knew it was useless 
asking her when she came up with such rules, it's not going to be written anyway. I might as well 
play along. 

"Alright. What you mean is that if we don't want to have our faces drawn on, we aren't allowed 
to sleep before you, right? In that case, if I sleep after you, does that mean I can draw a mustache 
on your face?" 

"What are you saying? Do you actually intend to do such childish acts? Let me put this straight, I 
can be very alert. I can retaliate even when asleep. Besides, you'll be risking the death penalty if 
you try to do anything foolish to the commander." 

Hey, Haruhi, the number of advanced countries still carrying out capital punishment is actually 
in the minority. What do you think of that? 

"Why should I comment on other countries' penalty systems? What matters is not some foreign 
country, but the island we're going to!" 



I prayed that nothing would happen, while pulling my bag over. 


The ship shook roughly. Maybe it's about to dock already. The other passengers were already 
headed to the exit in groups of two and three. 

"A mysterious island, huh ?" 

What kind of island awaits us? Just don't let it be some island that suddenly appeared on the sea, 
or one that drifted away suddenly. 

"Don't worry." 

Koizumi nodded as though he'd just read my mind, 

"There's nothing special about the island, just that it's far from land. There're no monsters or mad 
scientists, that I can guarantee." 

This guy's guarantees mean nothing to me. I silently looked at Nagato's pale face questioningly. 


Nagato also silently replied to me. If there were monsters appearing, she would probably help us 
beat them off. I'm counting on you, alien. 

The ship shook abruptly again. 

"Kyaa!" 

Without even flinching, Nagato caught Asahina, who had lost her balance and nearly fallen over. 


There awaiting our arrival were a butler and maid. 

"Hi, Arakawa-san, it's been a while." 

Koizumi said loudly, raising his arm to greet them. 

"You too, Mori-san. Thanks for going to the trouble to pick us up." 

Koizumi then turned and looked at us with, our jaws wide open, then shrugged his arms 
ridiculously like a stage actor trying to impress his audience, his grin four times wider than usual. 



"Allow me to introduce them. Arakawa-san and Mori-san are the butler and maid of the new 
mansion, and will be in charge of taking care of us. Ah yes, you must've already guessed that by 
their attire." 

It was easy to guess. I looked at the two figures who stood still after having bowed to us. I guess 
in this situation, the right word would be "captivating." 

"It must have been a long trip for everyone. I am Arakawa the butler." 

The old gentleman with white hair, mustache, and eyebrows, dressed in a tuxedo greeted us and 
bowed again. 

"I'm the maid, Mori Sonou. It's a pleasure to meet you." 

The lady standing beside him also bowed at the same angle, and then both raised their heads at 
the same time. One wonders if they've drilled this countless times. 

Arakawa-san looked elderly, but it was difficult to tell his exact age; while Mori-san looked very 
young. She looked about our age, or was she just putting on make-up to make herself look 
younger? Or maybe she was born with such a youthful look? 

"Butler and maid?" 

Haruhi murmured in surprise; my reaction was the same as hers. I never knew these professions 
existed in Japan. I always thought they only had a conceptual existence, having already been 
fossilized. 

I see. It seems the two people standing gracefully behind Koizumi are genuinely butler and maid. 

They look so much like it, at least after hearing their self-introductions, one would think, Ah I 

see. They're the real thing. Especially the maid, Mori-san, if I remember correctly. No matter 
how you look, she's still a maid. Because she's dressed in proper maid attire. This comes from 
my many months of experience observing Asahina dressed in her maid costume every day in the 
club room, so I can guarantee this. And Arakawa-san and Mori-san don't look like they're 
dressed like that just to entertain Haruhi, but are really dressed for their profession. 

"Wah " 

Asahina gave a gasp and simply stared at them with awe - more specifically, she was staring at 
Mori-san. She was half awestruck and 30% troubled. What about the remaining 20%? I believe 
she was a bit envious. After being forced by Haruhi to wear that costume every day, she must 
have subconsciously begun to enjoy being a maid. 

Nagato didn't give any expression at this moment, and her face remained the same. Yet her black 
obsidian eyes remained transfixed on those two professionals. 


Now then 



Arakawa invited us with his opera tenor-like voice, 

"The boat is prepared to take us to our master's island. The trip shall take about half an hour. As 
it's a lone island, I do apologize for any inconvenience caused." 

Mori-san bowed as well. I felt itchy all over for some reason. I really wanted to tell them that we 
weren't really that important to deserve having them serve us so elegantly. Could Koizumi be the 
son of some billionaire? I had thought this guy was just an esper who could only use his powers 
irregularly. I wonder if he has people calling him "Young Master" every time he comes home? 

"I don't really mind!" 

Haruhi said in a cheerful voice, blowing off all my questions. As I looked carefully, Haruhi had 
the smile of someone who has just conned some ignorant sponsor to fund her movie. Hmm 

"That's more like it, a lone island! We wouldn't mind if it took a few hours, let alone half an 
hour! A lone island in the middle of the ocean is just where I wanted to go. Kyon, Mikuru-chan, 
you two should be happy. There's a mansion on the island, and a weird butler and maid as well! 
You probably wouldn't find a second island like this in the whole of Japan!" 

There won't be a second island. 

"Wah! T...this is great I... I can't wait!" 

Leaving Asahina, who was being forced by Haruhi to pretend to be excited, aside, for Haruhi to 
actually call someone "weird" in front of their faces is just plain rude. Yet those two just smiled. 
Maybe they were weird in some way. 

Man, what's weird is this whole trip. And when it comes to weirdness, the SOS Brigade is 
leagues ahead of everyone, so I'm not qualified to criticize other people. Though I can't just let 
Haruhi get away with everything like that. 

I looked at Koizumi, who was chatting away with Arakawa-san the butler, while Mori-san stood 
by silently with her hands clasped, staring quietly towards the sea ahead. The sea looked calm, 
and the skies were clear. Don't think a typhoon will be coming soon. 

Will we ever return to the Japanese mainland in one piece? 

Nagato's calm poker face just seems so reliable all the time. I felt so useless. 


Arakawa-san and Mori-san led us to a small dock not far from the harbor. I had originally 
imagined seeing a small boat, but there ahead of us was parked a private speedboat, moving 



gently and idyllically on the waves. The speedboat looked so posh that I dared not ask how much 
it cost. I suddenly had the urge to go fishing on board that boat. 

Thanks to my daydreaming, when I saw Koizumi escorting both Asahina, who was astounded by 
the sight of the speedboat, and Nagato, who just stared blankly at it - but not counting Haruhi, 
who had leaped on at once on board the boat - 1 felt a deep sense of regret that my time had 
passed, never to return. That was supposed to be my job! 

We were led into the cabin, and before we could even begin to admire how a boat can have a 
western style kitchen, the speedboat had begun its departure from the port. It seems that butlers 
these days all have speedboat licenses, as Arakawa-san was the one driving it. 

Mori-san sat opposite me with a gentle smile on her face, as though she were a decoration in the 
boat. The maid costume looked trendy and dangerous at the same time. I felt that her maid attire 
was thinner than the costume that Haruhi made Asahina wear in the club room every day, but as 
I'm not too familiar with the maid profession, I wasn't too sure about that. 

I wasn't the only one looking uneasy. Asahina was the same as well. She had been staring at the 
maid's costume for some time now, looking very nervous. Does she intend to study how a maid 
really behaves so she can learn some new tricks to use back in the club room? She's the sort of 
person who is serious about the most unexpected things. 

Nagato sat facing the front, not moving at all. Koizumi had a casual expression, and remained as 
smiling as ever. 

"This is a good boat, perhaps fishing wouldn't be a bad idea?" Who is he suggesting that to 
anyway? 

As for Haruhi 

"Hey, do you know what the mansion is called?" 

"I'm not sure I understand what you mean." 

"Is it called something like The House of the Black Death, the Lilas Manor, Koketsu Castle, or 
the sort?" 

"Nothing of the sort." 

"Have there been any frightening stories like the mansion having a lot of hidden traps, or the 
architect being murdered, or a room where none may leave alive?" 

"I haven't heard of any." 

"Then, are there stories of the owner wearing a mask, or having three weird sisters living within 
his mind, and then vanishing without a trace?" 



No." The butler added, "Not yet, anyway. 


"Then, does that mean it's possible these things might happen some day?" 

"Perhaps." 

Is this butler trying to please her? 

As the boat sped off, Haruhi had crawled onto the deck and had the above conversation with 
Arakawa-san. From the contents of the dialogue I could hear over the sounds of the engine and 
waves, Haruhi seemed to have excessive expectations about the island's mansion. Speaking of 
which, why does she want so many strange specifications like an island far away from land? Isn't 
it enough to just swim, walk around, get to know each other better, and then return happily? I 
was hoping for that. 

Perhaps it's too late already. 

I never thought there would be a butler and a maid. This is more unexpected than being attacked 
by a shark in a public swimming pool. So I probably won't be surprised if the owner of the 
mansion wears a mask or has other weird looking guests. What other surprises does Koizumi 
have in store for us? 

"Ah! I see it! Is that the villa?" 

"It's the mansion." 

Haruhi's scream boomed like thunder and pierced through my heart. 


The mansion looked quite ordinary from the outside. 

The sun slowly tilted towards the west, but it was still some time before dusk. The mansion 
basked in the light of the setting sun. It seemed to shine with splendor; I'd always believed I'd 
never set foot in such a place. 

The building at the top of the steep hill looked just like something a rich person would build as a 
summer getaway. There was nothing suspicious about its architecture. It didn't look like any 
medieval European castle, it didn't have red thorny roses surrounding its outer walls, and there 
were no strange looking towers attached to it - and of course, no ghosts. 

As expected, Haruhi made a face as though realizing she'd just swallowed an onion thinking it 
was roast beef as she gazed bleakly at that mansion (Haruhi called it a villa). 



"This isn't what I imagined. The looks are an important factor, did the architect even refer to 
previous experience when building this?" 

I stood beside Haruhi on the deck, looking at the view of the island. I was forcefully dragged out 
there by her, by the way. 

"Kyon, what do you think? It's a lone island, yet the building looks so ordinary. Don't you think 
it's a pity?" 

I was actually thinking, they didn't need to build a mansion so far away. It'd take more than an 
hour by private speedboat to get to the nearest convenience store and return. What would you eat 
if you were to get hungry in the middle of the night? There don't seem to be any vending 
machines for drinks either. 

"I'm talking about the atmosphere! I always thought it'd be one of those eerie villas, but from the 
looks of it, this is just a vacation mansion! Our objective isn't to come to some rich friend's place 
to have fun." 

I brushed away Haruhi's hair, which was being blown by the wind and was stinging my face. 

"That's what they call a field trip. What were you expecting? Going out on an adventure? Or did 
you want to simulate being stranded on a deserted island?" 

"Hmm, that's not a bad idea. I'll include exploring the island as part of the itinerary. Who knows, 
we may be the first to discover a new species." 

Oh no, I've just increased the glitter in Haruhi's eyes. Oh, island, I beg you, please don't come up 
with anything funny. 

As I was praying to the green island 

"The islands around here were apparently formed by ancient volcanic activity." 

Koizumi said as he walked out slowly. 

"Besides new species, we might even pick up some ancient artifacts. There were artifacts left 
behind by the ancient Japanese on other islands. It's quite dramatic, isn't it?" 

I don't see any connection between the works of the ancients and this new mansion, but I'm not 
that interested in searching for Tsuchinoko or digging for treasures. Why don't we split up? 
Haruhi and Koizumi can go explore the island, while I'll stay behind with Asahina and Nagato 
and have a stroll by the beach. Now that's a nice idea. 


Huh? There's someone over there! 



Haruhi pointed to a newly built pier. It seemed to be built specifically for this speedboat, since 
there were no other boats parked. A person stood at the edge of the pier waving at us. Seems like 
it's a man. 

Haruhi instinctively waved back. 

"Koizumi, is he the owner of the villa? He looks quite young." 

Koizumi waved and said, 

"No, he's another guest who was invited besides us. I believe he's the owner's brother. I've only 
seen him once before." 

"Koizumi," I interrupted, "You should've told us this earlier! I didn't hear anything before about 
any other visitors besides us." 

"I only just found out now as well." 

Koizumi shrugged it off calmly. 

"There's no need to worry! He's a nice person. And of course, the owner Tamaru Keiichi-san is 
also a nice person." 

This Tamaru Keiichi-san is quite an imaginative person. He built a mansion in such a remote 
area just so he could live in it during the summer. He's a distant relative of Koizumi's, something 
like his mother's cousin on her father's side or something like that. I'm not too sure of the details, 
but I hear he's been quite successful in the field of biotechnology, and is now reaping the rewards 
of his success. His wealth must be so enormous that he doesn't know how to spend it all, 
otherwise he wouldn't have built such a mansion. 

The speedboat gradually slowed down as it approached the pier, until we could see the person's 
face. He was dressed in youthful attire, probably in his twenties. He's probably Tamaru Keiichi's 
brother. 

The butler is Arakawa-san, the maid is Mori Sonou-san. 

That leaves the owner of the mansion, Tamaru Keiichi-san. 

Is that the entire cast for this trip? 


We spent a few hours being rocked on the boat, so thanks to that, by the time we got onto land, 
we still felt as though the ground was moving. 



The young man had a pleasant smile, and ran towards the speedboat to greet us. 

"Ah, Itsuki, it's been a while." 

"You too, Yutaka-san. Thanks for coming over." 

Koizumi replied, then he began to introduce us one by one. 

"These are the friends that have been taking good care of me in school." 

I don't remember ever taking good care of you, but Koizumi pointed at us, lined up in a row. 

"The cheery girl here is Suzumiya Haruhi-san. She's an incredible friend. She's pretty easy going 
and very energetic. I ought to learn some of her assertiveness." 

What kind of introduction is this? A cold sweat dropped from my back. And Haruhi, you too. 
Why are you wearing that fake courteous looking mask? Have your brain cells been damaged 
from being rocked too much on the boat? 

"I'm Suzumiya. Koizumi here is an irreplaceable member of my brig I mean association. He 

was the one who invited us to this island. He's a very reliable vice-command I mean deputy- 

chairman. Hee hee." 

Koizumi ignored the cold steam being emitted by me and went on to introduce the other 
members, such as: 

"This is Asahina Mikuru-san. As you may see, she's the cute and beautiful idol of our school. 

Her smile is enough to bring peace to our world." 

Or: 

"This is Nagato Yuki-san. Her grades are so good she's seen as an encyclopedia never seen 
before in this world. She doesn't talk much, but that's her charm." 

He went on and on with his exaggerated introductions of all the members, as though he'd read 
them from some blind date agency client file. Of course I was included in his cheesy 
introduction, but I'd prefer to gloss over it here. 

With a smile befitting of Koizumi's relative, Yutaka-san said, 

"Welcome everyone, I'm Tamaru Yutaka, right now I'm just an employee helping out at my 
brother's company. Itsuki always talks to me a lot about you. I was very worried for him when he 
suddenly had to transfer schools. It's great that he's made so many great friends." 


Well, then. 



Arakawa-san's cheerful voice boomed from behind. 

Turning around, I saw the butler and Mori Sonou-san carrying our luggage and getting off the 
boat. 

"The sun's a bit bright here. May I suggest we move to the mansion?" 

Yutaka-san nodded and said, 

"You're right, brother's waiting for everyone. Let's bring the luggage in as well, I'll help." 

"We're fine. Could Yutaka-san go help Arakawa-san and Mori-san instead? They bought a lot of 
groceries from the main island." 

Koizumi smiled and said. Yutaka-san also replied with a smile. 

"I'll be looking forward to the meal!" 

After the niceties, we followed Koizumi's lead and headed for the mansion at the top of the cliff. 
Thinking back, things were already beginning to get strange then. 

Of course, this is all spoken in hindsight. 


At the end of the staircase, as steep as Mt. Fuji, lies the mansion. This probably sounded bad to 
Haruhi, for the mansion ahead looked absolutely normal, not the sort of villa or Japanese-style 
inn she had expected. 

The three-story building gave the impression of flatness. Perhaps because it looked a bit wide? I 
even wanted to count how many rooms there were. I guess this mansion could hold up to two 
football teams with room to spare. The mansion seems to have been built after leveling out the 
dense woods on the hill, but how did they ship all those building materials? A lot of logistics 
were probably needed. I'm really perplexed at how the rich operate. 

"This way please." 

Koizumi led us to outside the entrance hall like a butler. We stood in a row. The moment had 
come for us to meet the owner face to face. 


Save Haruhi, who stepped forward like a horse not following its herd, rearing its head out 
suddenly. I understood how eager she was for this moment, she even stuck her tongue out on her 



lips and placed it back in many times. Asahina cutely combed her hair, trying to give a good first 
impression. While Nagato stood still, as usual, like one of those lucky cats by store entrances. 

Koizumi turned and looked at us, a small smile growing on his face, as he very casually pushed 
the button on the intercom near the door. 

Someone replied, and Koizumi went through a lot of niceties again. 

Ten seconds later, the door opened slowly. 

Needless to say, the person welcoming us wasn't wearing an iron mask, nor some funny hat with 
shades, neither did he suddenly attack us, or say some very puzzling remarks. Just a normal 
middle-aged man. 

"Welcome!" 

I don't know if Tamaru Keiichi-san became wealthy suddenly or gradually, but right now this 
middle-aged man was dressed in just a golf shirt and working trousers, stretching out one of his 
hands, beckoning us to come in. 

"Itsuki, and everyone else, I've been waiting for you for a long time now. Frankly, this place is 
really boring, you'll get frustrated after staying for three days. The only other person to accept 
my invitation besides Itsuki was Yutaka. Oh my!" 

Keiichi-san's vision moved to my face, then towards Asahina, Haruhi and Nagato. 

"Itsuki, you have such cute friends! I heard from Itsuki, but you are prettier than I thought. 

You've certainly injected some life into this lonely little island. You're most welcome." 

Haruhi smiled heartily, Asahina bowed her head politely, while Nagato remained motionless. 
Three people with three different reactions, yet they all had the eyes of someone seeing a music 
teacher appear during history class, looking at Keiichi-san, who was welcoming us from the 
bottom of his heart. After a while, Haruhi stepped forward and said, 

"We're very grateful you could invite us here. It's an honor to be able to stay in such a luxurious 
mansion. On behalf on everyone, I'd like to express my gratitude." 

She spoke in a higher pitch than usual, as though reciting a speech. Does she intend to put on that 
appearance for the whole trip? I suggest before she sheds her sheepskin and reveals her wolf 
fangs, she ought to take off that invisible mask on her face. 

Perhaps Tamaru Keiichi-san was thinking something like that as well? 


"So you're Suzumiya-san? Hmm, you're different from what I heard. Itsuki told me you're a 
more um how should I say this, Itsuki?" 



The ball got bounced into Koizumi's court. Without flinching, he said with ease, 


"A frank person? I do remember saying that." 

"That's it! He said you were quite a frank girl." 

"Ah, really?" 

Haruhi promptly took off her mask, and put on a smile that she rarely showed outside the club 
room. 

"Nice to meet you, mansion owner! Allow me to ask frankly, have any strange events happened 
in this mansion before? Or maybe some frightening rumors from the locals about this island 
being haunted? These sort of things interest me the most." 

Don't go around declaring your interests to someone you just met for the first time. To be 
precise, don't say stupid stuff about what happened in the past to the owner. What would we do if 
we were driven away? 

However, Tamara Keiichi-san was simply such a nice person that he only smiled and said, 

"I've got similar interests to yours, though I've not heard of anything bad lately. Besides, this 
island used to be uninhabited." 

He kindly pointed his hand towards the back, 

"Well, don't just stand there, come in! This is a western style mansion, so you don't need to take 
off your shoes. I think I'll show you to your rooms. I wanted Arakawa-san to show you around, 
but it seems he's attending to the luggage, so I guess I'll be your guide for now." 

Keiichi said and led us into the mansion. 


I wish I could provide everyone with a blueprint of the mansion to show where the rooms are 
located, but I've known I had no talent for drawing ever since I was in first grade, so I won't 
bother. To put it simply, our quarters are all on the second floor, Tamara Keiichi-san's bedroom 
and the guest room for Yutaka-san are on the third. Maybe this represents their family ties. The 
butler Arakawa-san and the maid Mori-san each have a room on the first floor 

That's about how it is. 

"Does this mansion have a name?" 



Haruhi asked; Keiichi-san smiled wryly and answered, 


"Right now we haven't come up with one, but if you have any suggestions for the name, I'm all 
ears." 

"Ah yes, why not call it the House of Fear or the House of Horrors? What do you think? And we 
could name every room as well, like the Bloodsucking Room, or the Cursed Room?" 

"Hmm, that's a great idea! I'll come up with some room names the next time I invite someone." 

I have no intentions of sleeping in a room with a name that gives me nightmares. 

We crossed the hall and climbed the high-class wooden stairway up to the second floor. The 
interior was designed like an inn, with a row of doors lined up next to each other. 

"The rooms are all about the same size, they're divided into single and double bedrooms. Pick 
any you like." 

What should I do? I wouldn't mind sharing with anybody, but there's five of us. If we had to 
share, there'd be an odd one out, and no matter how hard I tried, I could only think of Nagato 
being the one left out. If I loudly announced my roommate priority, I'm sure Nagato wouldn't 
mind, but I'd probably be killed by Haruhi's instant backfist. 

"Hmm, I think one person per room isn't too bad." 

Koizumi concluded. 

"Since we're only in our rooms while sleeping anyway. We can just walk between the rooms as 
we please. I'd like to ask, can the doors be locked?" 

"They sure can." 

Tamaru Keiichi-san smiled and nodded. 

"The keys are placed on the cabinet by the bed. The doors won't lock automatically, so you don't 
have to worry about being locked outside your rooms by accident. But take good care of the keys 
and don't lose them." 

I won't be needing a key. Even before sleeping, I might just leave the door ajar. Maybe Asahina 
will come sneaking in for some reason after everyone's fallen asleep. Besides, I didn't bring any 
valuables worth stealing, I don't think anyone would dare steal when the suspect list is so narrow. 
Even if there was, the goddamn thief would definitely be Haruhi. 

"Then I'll go see how Arakawa-san is doing. You can take your time walking around. Please 
don't forget where the emergency exits are located. I'll see you later." 



Keiichi-san then went down the stairs. 


This is how Haruhi described her impression of Keiichi san, 

"It's because there's nothing strange that makes him even more suspicious." 

"Then if he did look suspicious, how would you explain that?" 

"Just from how he looked, he'd have to be a strange person!" 

According to this girl's subjective logic, there is nothing in this world that is not strange. Her 
standards would shock even the ISO. Maybe you could work for JARO. I bet you could work 
hard feeling fulfilled every day there. 

After leaving our luggage in our rooms, we met in the double bedroom Haruhi had chosen as her 
room. It's so like Haruhi to occupy a double bedroom all by herself. The words courteous and 
modest do not exist in her vocabulary. 

The three girls sat on the bed, I sat on the make-up table, while Koizumi leaned against the wall 
and crossed his arms looking relaxed. 

"I know!" 

Haruhi shouted suddenly, and as usual, I instinctively asked, 

"Know what?" 

"The suspect." 

Haruhi said promptly. Her face now had the aura of a Great Detective, for some reason. 

I hesitantly spoke for the other three, 

"What suspect? There isn't even a case yet, we only just arrived!" 

"From my instincts, the suspect is the owner of this place. I think his first target will be Mikuru- 
chan." 

"Eh!?" 

Asahina seemed to be really scared. She trembled like a rabbit at the sound of an eagle's wings 
flapping, clutching onto Nagato's skirt. Nagato said nothing. 



Only fixing her gaze towards some spot in mid-air. 


"I'm asking you, what suspect?" I asked again, "Or more like, what kind of criminal are you 
trying to mold Tamaru Keiichi-san into?" 

"How should I know? From his eyes, he seems to have something planned. My instincts are 
usually correct. By then, we'll be involved in some shocking event." 

It would be fine if it was just a normal surprise party, but Haruhi was expecting something way 
beyond that, not some messy party where she would only play a bit role. 

Think about it. The image of Keiichi-san removing his nice guy appearance, his eyes flashing 
with insanity, and carrying a sharp butcher knife trying to cut all the guests' stomachs open. Just 
because he accidentally stumbled upon some ancient grave deep within the island forest, and got 
possessed by a murderous ghost. 

"Can something that dumb really happen?" 

I waved my hand horizontally in mid air, making a "don't get yourself into trouble" gesture. 

No matter how hard you think about it, it's impossible that someone Koizumi knows would turn 
into something like that. That "Organization" group is not completely stupid, they probably did a 
lot of background checks beforehand. Koizumi had his usual harmless smile, and Arakawa-san 
the butler, Mori-san the maid, as well as Tamaru Yutaka-san all looked very far from the image 
of a scary person. By the way, Haruhi is hoping for a mystery, not some interference from the 
magnetic field, right? 

If things were to happen, it would just be one to two murders at most, right? Besides, I don't 
think such things would happen just because she wished it so. The weather's great outside, and 
the sea's calm. This island is no closed circle. 

Moreover, no matter how insane Haruhi is, she wouldn't actually wish for someone to die. If 
Haruhi were like that, I would have been killed by her impatience already, considering I've 
tagged along with her all this time. 

Haruhi didn't seem to sense my worries, and said innocently, 

"Let's go swimming first! What else is there to do besides swimming when we're by the sea? 
Everyone, swim to your heart's content! We'll have a race and see who gets swept away by the 
waves first!" 


That's not a bad idea, provided the coast guard is available and on standby. 



But we've only just arrived, do we have to go so soon? Don't you even want to take a break after 
all the exhaustion from that long boat trip? Speaking of which, even if Haruhi has never felt tired 
before, she should still be considerate of other people instead of trying to do things by her own 
standards ! 

"What on earth are you mumbling about? The sun won't stop rising and setting even if you 
offered sacrifices to Apollo's temple! It would be a waste of time if we don't go before the sun 
sets." 

Haruhi stretched both her arms and wrapped them round Asahina and Nagato's necks. 

"KYAA-!" Asahina closed her eyes and screamed. " " While Nagato didn't even have a 

reaction. 

"Swimsuits! Swimsuits! Everyone get dressed in your swimsuits and meet in the hall! Hee hee, 
I've helped choose these two cuties' swimsuits! You must be looking forward to them, right 
Kyon?" 

Haruhi revealed an expression of "I know what you've been thinking already" and smiled evilly, 
revealing her white teeth. 

"You're damn right." 

I was reinvigorated and stood upright. This was indeed part of my reason for coming here. I will 
not allow any objections. 

"Koizumi, is the private beach here completely booked for us?" 

"Yes it is. People usually go to the beach to collect shells anyway. Few people ever come here 
anyway, but the waves can be strong here, so try not to swim too far. If you were serious about 
wanting to have a race " 

"Don't be ridiculous. I was only joking! Mikuru-chan's bound to get swept away by a black tide 
to get fed to the fish. Everyone listen up, don't get too carried away and swim too far! Remain in 
my field of vision." 

Is it appropriate for Haruhi to be in charge of everyone's safety? I guess I'll have to help. At least 
I need to be careful not to let Asahina out of my sight for more than two seconds. 

"Hey, Kyon!" 

Haruhi's finger pointed towards the tip of my nose. 


"I don't like that stupid smile on your face, so cut it out! You're better off frowning. And I'm not 
handing you the camera either!" 



Remaining passionate from beginning to end, the Haruhi Orient Express sped on, ignoring any 
obstacles, smiling and giving out orders, 

"Then, let's go!" 


So, as such, we came to the beach. 

The sun was already setting, but the rays and heat were pretty much up to summer standards. The 
waves washed upon the sand, the clouds floated above in the sky like marshmallows. Our hair 
was blown by the sea breeze, carrying the scent of the waves. 

While it's called a private beach, there really wasn't any need to set up any special booking, as no 
one ever comes to this uninhabited island anyway. I guess the only people who would come here 
to enjoy a beach spa are probably some foreign tourists conned by those rubbish travel 
magazines. Besides the five of us, there was no doubt that the beach was pretty much empty. 
There weren't even any seabirds. 

So, besides me and Koizumi, the only other living beings able to enjoy the sight of Haruhi and 
the girls in their swimsuits were the barnacles attached on the shore rocks. 

I laid the straw mat under the umbrella, and squinted my eyes, enjoying Asahina's every move, 
looking shyly, while Haruhi came from behind and grabbed her. 

"Mikuru-chan, the best way to enjoy the seaside is to swim! C'mon, let's go! It's bad for your 
health not to enjoy the sunshine!" 

"Ah, I'm not really fond of standing in the sunshine." 

Haruhi ignored the cowering protests of Asahina, and pushed the small and pale skinned senpai 
into the water. 

"Wah! Salty!" 

Asahina was actually surprised at something so trivially obvious, flapping her arms on the water 
surface. 




£3 

Asahina was actually surprised at something so trivially obvious, flapping her arms on the water surface. 
At this moment, Nagato 


sat on her beach chair in her swimsuit and quietly read her thick novel. 

"Different people sure have different ways to have fun." 

Koizumi, who was playing beach ball, opened his mouth to show me his smile. 

"One should spend their free time doing what they like most, otherwise it wouldn't be called free 
time. Don't you intend to enjoy this carefree trip for the next four days and three nights?" 

Isn't Haruhi the only one doing as she pleases? I never once thought Asahina, being forced to 
play along by Haruhi, would understand the true meaning of being relaxed. 

"Hey, Kyon! Koizumi-kun! You guys come over as well!" 

Haruhi yelled at us like a siren warning. I warily got up. To be honest, I didn't mind that much. 
Not counting Haruhi, just being able to stand next to Asahina is exactly what I've wished for. 
Taking the blown beach ball from Koizumi's hand, I began walking on the sizzling beach. 



Once we sensed our muscles starting to fatigue, we returned to the mansion, took a bath and had 
a rest in our rooms. The sky is now littered with stars. Mori-san then led us to the dining room. 


During dinner time: 

The dinner for that night was quite flamboyant. I don't think they were meaning to grant 
Asahina's wish, but there was pickled fish on every one of our plates. Being used to poverty, I 
had to sit upright in respect after seeing all this. I get to eat all of this for free? Is that really 
okay? 

"Be my guests." 

Keiichi-san smiled and showed his generosity. 

"Think of it as a reward for having come this far, because it's just too boring for me alone here. 
Actually I'm quite picky in choosing my guests, but of course since you're Itsuki's friends, you're 
most welcome." 

For some reason, Keiichi-san was now dressed very formally compared to when we last saw 
him. He wore a black tuxedo with a bowtie on his neck. The dishes were a mix of Japanese and 
western cuisine. There was lamb, French roast fish, and some steamed stuff, all sorts of things. 
The only one using a fork and knife was Keiichi-san, since we had asked for chopsticks at the 
beginning. 

"This is great! Who made these?" 

Haruhi asked while revealing her amazing appetite worthy of nomination for a speed eating 
contest. 

"The butler Arakawa is also the chef here, his cooking's not bad, huh?" 

"I must thank him, please call him out later." 

Haruhi said as though she were a gourmand who had just tasted a high class dinner. 

I looked at Asahina, who widened her eyes further every time she took a bite; then at Nagato, 
who doesn't seem to eat much, yet she never stopped picking up food with her chopsticks; and at 
Koizumi, who chatted happily with Yutaka-san. 

"Would you like something to drink?" 

Mori-san asked, dressed in her maid costume and playing the role of waitress the whole time. 
She carried a small, long wine bottle and smiled. Probably wine, I guess. While it's questionable 
to offer alcohol to minors, I still decided to ask for one glass. I've never tasted wine before, but 
one ought to be more daring. And after seeing Mori-san's charming smile, I found it hard to 
refuse. 



"Ah, what's Kyon drinking? I want one too." 

Due to Haruhi's request, glasses filled with wine had now been passed into everyone's hands. 

I felt this was the beginning of the nightmare. 

That day, I discovered Asahina is completely wine intolerant, while Nagato is a formidable 
bottomless pit; as for Haruhi, she's just a hopeless drunkard. 

Due to the circumstances, I drank quite a lot and so my memory was quite blurred, but I do 
remember Haruhi grabbing onto the wine bottle and drinking nonstop while knocking on 
Keiichi-san's head. 

"Ah You're so great! To thank you for inviting us, I'll offer you Mikuru-chan! Train her well 

so she can become a better maid! Because this girl is completely hopeless!" 

I remotely remember her yelling with a heightened pitch. 

The real maid Mori-san placed the wine bottle back on the table like a bowling pin, and quietly 
sliced the apples and pears from the fruits basket, handing them out as dessert. While the only 
make-believe maid in the club room, Asahina was already lying on the table with her face all red. 

Nagato finished the glass of wine Mori-san poured for her. I don't know how the alcohol in her 
body gets dissipated. Her face remained the same while she emptied glass after glass like a whale 
drinking seawater. 

Yutaka-san asked curiously, 

"Is she really okay?" 

He looked really worried, I still remembered that scene. 

That night, it seems that Koizumi carried an unconscious me back to my room. That's what 
Koizumi told me afterwards. He said I reeked of booze just as much as Haruhi, but since I don't 
remember anything, I pretended not to hear that, and refused to remember that such a thing 
happened. I'll treat it as one of Koizumi's jokes. 

Because something happened on the second day that pushed our hangovers to the back of our 
minds. 


A storm brewed suddenly on the morning of the second day. 



The rain water splattered diagonally on the window surface, the strong wind had an ominous 
sound. The forest around the mansion rustled as though demons were living in it. 

"Such bad luck, of all the times to have a typhoon." 

Haruhi said dejectedly while looking outside the window. We were gathered in Haruhi's room, 
discussing how we should spend the day today. 

This was after we had our breakfast. Keiichi-san was absent from the table. Arakawa-san said 
Keiichi-san always felt terrible in the morning after waking up, so for him to wake up before 
noon was very rare. 

Haruhi turned towards us, 

"This has now really become a lone island. This is the situation of a lifetime, maybe something 
will happen ! " 

Asahina gasped and moved her eyes around, while Koizumi and Nagato's facial expressions 
remained business-like as usual. 

The waves were still and calm yesterday. Now they've reached tsunami alert status, impossible 
for any ship to sail in. If this goes on until the day after tomorrow, we'll really be stranded on a 
lone island against our wishes, just as Haruhi had wished for. A closed circle, right? 

Koizumi gave a smile, trying to calm everyone down, 

"This typhoon seems to be moving quite fast, I think it'll get better the day after tomorrow. As 
they say, things come and go quickly." 

According to the weather report, this would be correct. But there were no reports of a typhoon 
coming in yesterday's report! Just whose mind conjured this storm!? 

"It's coincidental." 

Koizumi said with ease. 

"This is a normal natural phenomenon, it comes with the summer weather package, I guess? 
There's always one big typhoon every year." 

"We were supposed to explore around the island, but it seems we have to cancel that." Haruhi 
said bitterly, "Ah well, let's find some games that we can play indoors!" 


Haruhi seemed to have completely forgotten the original purpose of this field trip, as the 
emphasis now moved into having fun. Now this was something worth cheering for, because I 



didn't want to walk to the other end of the island to find some unidentified creature's carcass 
being washed ashore and stuck between the boulders. 

Koizumi made his suggestion, 

"I seem to remember there's a game room here, I'll go ask Keiichi-san to open it for us. Which do 
you like? Mah-jong or pool? If we asked, we could even get a snooker table set up." 

Haruhi agreed, 

"Then let's have a table tennis match! We'll decide the winner of the first SOS Brigade Table 
Tennis Tournament in a round-robin format! Sorry for those who want to play pool, I'll treat 
them to drinks on the boat trip back. Don't hold back now ! " 

The game room was located in the basement. In the wide hall was placed a Mah-jong table and a 
pool table. They even had a roulette and Baccarat table. Do Koizumi's relatives secretly run a 
casino here? 

"What do you think?" Koizumi replied with a foolish smile, pulling out the folded snooker table 
from the side. 

By the way, after an intense battle with me, Haruhi won the table tennis tournament. She then 
held the Mah-jong contest, but besides Koizumi, no one in the SOS Brigade knew how to play 
Mah-jong, so we had to learn as we played along. During the game, the Tamaru brothers also 
joined in, making it a lively Mah-jong contest. Haruhi distorted the rules and created yaku to suit 
herself, racking up win after win with puzzling combinations like "Nishoku Zetsu Ichimon, " 
"Chantamodoki, " "Iishanten Paralysis" and so on. Well, it made me laugh, so I let it pass. And 
we weren't playing for money, anyway. 

"Ron! That's about ten thousand points!" 

"Suzumiya-san, that's yakuman." 

I secretly sighed, perhaps it was better to look on the bright side and enjoy the fun the trip 
brought. As things stand, it seems unlikely a huge sea creature will appear, or natives coming out 
from the forest. After all, this is a lone island far way from the mainland. There won't be strange 
things coming in from outside so easily. 

I decided to think like that and relax myself. Tamaru Keiichi-san and Yutaka-san, Arakawa-san, 
Mori-san are all acquainted with Koizumi, they all look normal. We're still short of characters 
necessary to trigger a strange event. 

I hope everything goes well. I prayed in my heart. 


Yet the gods just never seem to answer my prayers. 



It happened on the morning of the third day. 


We spent the whole second day playing and eating, and as the weather worsened by nightfall, the 
same dining hall scene repeated itself again. On the third day, I struggled to wake up with a 
splitting headache from the hangover, if Koizumi hadn't carried us back to our rooms, I guess I 
would still be sleeping in the dining hall with Haruhi and Asahina. 

I opened the curtains on the morning of the third day. The storm continued. 

"I wonder if we can return tomorrow?" 

I washed off the dizzyness from my face with some cold water, trying hard to walk in a straight 
line. I walked down the stairs with caution, not wanting to trip and tumble over. 

There gathered in the dining hall were Haruhi and Asahina with the same miserable face as mine, 
and Koizumi and Nagato with their usual expressions. 

The Tamaru brothers haven't come down yet, maybe they've reached their limits after drinking 
for two consecutive nights? I remembered Haruhi pouring wine over their glasses. Haruhi was 
already reckless when sober, with alcohol she became worse, and just thinking of her antics last 
night simply worsened my headache. I decided never to force myself to drink endlessly. 

"I don't want to drink wine anymore." 

Haruhi frowned and said as if she had learnt her lesson. 

"I don't know why, but all my memories after dinner seem to have disappeared. Isn't that a pity? I 
felt as if we had wasted a lot of time. Argh, I don't want to get drunk again. Tonight is 'alcohol 
free night'." 

Normally, high school students are not supposed to get drunk. Perhaps I ought to compliment 
Haruhi for actually saying something responsible for once? Yet, Asahina's dreamy expression 
when she was drunk looked just so seductive, I must admit I wouldn't mind drinking so much. 

"Then it's decided!" 

Koizumi nodded and agreed right away, he then said to Mori-san who just came in pushing a cart 
with our breakfast on it, 

"We won't be needing any wine for tonight. Please just prepare some juice instead." 



Understood. 


Mori-san bowed politely and started handing out the bacon and eggs plates on to the table. 


Yutaka-san had still not appeared after we had finished our breakfast. As Keiichi-san normally 
feels ill during morning, his absence was expected, but not Yutaka-san's. At this moment 

"Excuse me." 

Arakawa-san and Mori-san appeared before us. I noticed a troubled expression within his usually 
calm butler face. I have a bad feeling about this. 

"What happened?" Koizumi asked, "Is there a problem?" 

"Yes." Arakawa-san said, "I believe it is sort of a problem. I had asked Mori-san to go check 
Yutaka-sama's room." 

Mori-san nodded her head, Arakawa-san continued, 

"As the door wasn't locked, I opened it to find Yutaka-sama's not inside." 

With a voice as clear as a bell, Mori-san said glancing at the table cloth, 

"The room was empty, and the bed doesn't seem to be slept on at all." 

"I tried to contact the master's room using an internal phone line, but there was no response." 
Haruhi released the glass of orange juice she was holding after hearing Arakawa-san said that. 
"What does that mean? Yutaka-san is missing while Keiichi-san doesn't answer the phone?" 

"To put it bluntly, that's how it is." Arakawa-san replied. 

"Couldn't you enter Keiichi-san's room? Do you have a backup key?" 

"I have the backup keys to all the rooms save the master's bedroom. As his room has a lot of 
work-related documents, only he has access to the backup keys, just to be safe." 

The bad feeling has begun to hover as a dark cloud, shrouding two-thirds of my heart. The 
mansion owner who hasn't woken up, and his brother who was missing. 


Arakawa-san bowed slightly. 



"I would like to visit the master's bedroom in a moment. If you do not mind, would you please 
accompany me? I hope I'm wrong, but I have a bad feeling about this." 


Haruhi quickly gestured something to me with her eyes. What's she trying to say? 

"Maybe we should come along." 

Koizumi stood up without hesitation. 

"Maybe he's so ill he couldn't get up. We may have to break the door down." 

Haruhi swiftly jumped up from her chair, 

"Kyon, let's go! I'm getting all uneasy. Yuki and Mikuru-chan, you two come along as well!" 
In this moment, Haruhi revealed a hitherto unseen serious expression on her face. 


Allow me to briefly go through what happened afterwards. 

Keiichi-san's room was located on the third floor, there was no response no matter how many 
times we knocked. Koizumi tried turning the doorknob, but the door still won't open. The 
wooden door now stood like a wall, blocking our access. 

Before going there, we also went to Tamaru Yutaka-san's room. As Mori-san had described, the 
bedsheets were tidy, as though no one has slept on it. Just where did he go? Could both brothers 
be hiding in Keiichi-san's room? 

"The room is locked from the inside, that means there's someone inside." 

Koizumi held his chin and gave a look of thinking deeply. He said in an unprecedented intense 
tone, 

"Looks like we no longer have a choice. We'll have to break down the door. Things are getting 
serious that lives may be at stake here." 

So we lined up together and rammed ourselves towards the door like a bunch of rugby players. 
The line-up included me, Koizumi and Arakawa-san. I trust Nagato would be able to push the 
door down easily with just her finger, but she decided her magic wouldn't be appropriate here 
with everyone looking. Under the watchful eyes of the three SOS Brigade girls and Mori-san, the 
three of us bravely rammed the door many times, just as the bones in my shoulders were 
beginning to yell out in pain 



The door finally burst open like a spring. 


Losing our balance, I, Koizumi and Arakawa-san all fell in towards the room with our 
momentum. And then 

Yes, we have now returned to the scene at the beginning. It took a long time to catch up. Now, 
back to the present. 


After a lengthy flashback, I slowly moved my eyes away from Keiichi-san, whose chest has been 
stabbed with a knife, towards the door which has been burst open. This is a newly built mansion, 
even the doors looked shiny I shouldn't be thinking of totally irrelevant stuff now. 

Arakawa-san bent his body and knelt down by his master's side, touching his neck with the tip of 
his finger, then slowly lifted his head to face us. 

"He has passed away." 

Perhaps it's due to his profession, he sounded very sullen. 

"Ah.. .ah " 

Asahina knelt on the ground looking worn out, this is understandable, because right now I felt 
like doing that as well. I even found Nagato's wooden expression to be a salvation. 

"Things have become serious." 

Koizumi went towards Keiichi-san and knelt by him opposite Arakawa-san, carefully handling 
Keiichi-san's suit and examining his shirt. 

The white shirt has now been dyed with some dark-reddish liquid, forming an irregular pattern. 
"Huh?" 

He made an exclamation. I looked at his hand and saw a notebook placed inside the chest pocket 
of Keiichi-san's shirt. The blade seemed to pierce through the notebook and into the heart. The 



suspect must have possessed some formidable strength in order to do that. I don't think it would 
be the girls here, though for Haruhi, it just might be possible with her incredible power. 

Koizumi's voice carried a tint of sadness, 

"Right now our priority is to preserve the crime scene. Let us leave this place." 

"Mikuru-chan, are you alright?" 

It's not surprising for Haruhi to be so worried, since Asahina was close to fainting. She knelt 
wearily on the floor besides Nagato's thin legs and closing her eyes tightly. 

"Yuki, let's carry Mikuru-chan to my room! You grab her other arm." 

Haruhi actually said something with common sense, maybe this means she is disturbed inside. 
With her arms grabbed by Nagato and Haruhi, Asahina was slowly dragged and carried away off 
the corridor. 

After making sure they had left, I observed the surroundings. 

Arakawa-san put his hands together and paid his respects to his master now lying on the floor, 
while Mori-san lowered her head with a sad face. Up till now Yutaka-san still remained missing 
while the storm outside continued. 

"Now..." Koizumi said to me, "It seems we need to think about what has transpired." 

"What do you mean?" I asked. Koizumi's normal smile suddenly returned to his mouth. 

"Haven't you realized? This is now a genuine closed circle." 

I already knew that long before. 

"This looks like a murder." 

Well it doesn't look like suicide. 

"Besides, this room is totally sealed off." 

I turned and noticed all the windows were locked from the inside. 

"How does the suspect commit his act and leave safely in a room that can't be accessed at all?" 
Why don't you ask the suspect himself!? 

"You're right," Koizumi agreed with me, "We'd better ask Yutaka-san about this." 



Koizumi asked Arakawa-san to call the police, then turned and said to me, 
"Please wait at Suzumiya-san's room first, I'll be coming over as well later." 
That seemed like a good idea, since there wasn't much I could do. 


I knocked on the door. 

"Who is it?" 

"It's me." 

The door opened slightly, Haruhi peeked from inside. She then let me in with a perplexed look 
on her face. 

"Where's Koizumi-kun?" 

"He'll be here soon." 

Asahina was left to sleep on one of the double beds. Her sleeping face was enough to compel any 
passing-by prince to come and kiss her. But from her pained expression, she should be in a state 
of coma; it's such a pity. 

Beside her sat Nagato as though watching over a coffin. Keep up the good work! Don't ever 
leave Asahina's side. 

"Hey, what do you think?" 

Haruhi seemed to be asking me. 

"Think of what?" 

"I mean Keiichi-san's death. This is a murder incident, right?" 

Objectively speaking, the answer's pretty obvious, isn't it? I tried to deduce. We burst open the 
locked door to find the owner of the mansion lying on the floor, with a knife stabbed on his 
chest. A murder happening inside a sealed room in an island trapped in the middle of a storm. 
This is just too elaborate. 

"It seems like that's the case." 


Time stopped for a few seconds, Haruhi then sighed deeply and sort of replied, 



Hmm 


Haruhi placed her hand on her temple and sat on her bed. 

"How can this be? I never expected things to develop this way." 

She quietly murmured. I should be asking you that. Weren't you the one who was anticipating 
that something would happen? 

"But, I never thought it would come true!" 

Haruhi scowled, then changed her expression. She seemed to be troubled by what expression she 
should put on. I was kind of relieved that she didn't seem happy about this, because I have no 
intention of playing the role of the second victim. 

I looked at Asahina, who was sleeping with an angel face. 

"She should be fine, I guess. She just fainted. Such a direct reaction, I'm envious of her. This is 
so like how Mikuru-chan would react. It's better than going hysterical." 

Haruhi said thoughtlessly. 

A sealed room murder incident on a lone island within a storm. What are the chances of that 
occurring in a trip? Then again, we are the SOS Brigade, not some Occult Study Group, or 
Mystery Novels Association. Searching for mysterious events is exactly the reason Haruhi 
founded the SOS Brigade, so in truth, encountering this kind of incident perhaps embodies the 
founding principles of the SOS Brigade. Of course, it's a whole different story when we're 
actually experiencing it. 

Has this happened since Haruhi had been expecting it? 

"Man, this is so frustrating " 

Haruhi leaped off her bed and paced around the room. 

For me, she looked like a kid who wanted to pull a small prank on April Fool's Day, but found 
out the prank went too far and was feeling troubled. She seemed to be taken completely by 
surprise, and this troubled me as well. 

What should we do? 

If possible, I'd like to lie down and sleep beside Asahina, but it's useless trying to escape reality 
now. There's got to be a way to deal with this. What does Koizumi intend to do? 

"Hmm, after all, we can't just stay here doing nothing." 



After all? Haruhi said that matter-of-factly and stood before my face. She looked at me seriously 
with her challenging eyes. 

"I need to confirm something. Kyon, come with me." 

I really don't want to just leave Asahina alone here. 

"Yuki's here as well, so don't worry! Yuki, have the door locked, and don't let anybody in, you 
understand?" 

Nagato carried her calm demeanor and looked at me and Haruhi. 

"Understood." 

She replied without even changing the tone of her voice. 

Instantaneously, the pair of light filtering eyes made contact with my eyes. At this moment, 
Nagato nodded slightly in a way only I could notice, that's what I think anyway. 

I don't think anything dangerous would happen to me and Haruhi, right? If something funny 
were to happen, it's unlikely for Nagato not to intervene. I convinced myself, remembering what 
happened at the studio apartment of the Computer Study Group's president. 

"Let's go, Kyon." 

Haruhi grabbed my wrist and stepped out towards the corridor. 

"Just where're we going?" 

"To Keiichi-san's room, of course! I didn't observe it closely just now, so I need to check again." 

At the image of Keiichi-san lying on the floor with a knife stabbed on his chest, and the blood 
soaked on his white shirt, I hesitated. That was not a view worth appreciating. 

Haruhi walked and said, 

"Then, we need to find out where Yutaka-san is. He may be still in the building, besides " 

For something this serious, if Yutaka-san had nothing to do with this, then it doesn't make sense 
for him to disappear. There could only be two possibilities for his absence. 

I was dragged by Haruhi, who climbed the stairs and said, 

"Either Yutaka-san is the killer and has escaped the scene; or Yutaka-san is also a 
victim right?" 



Yeah, but if Yutaka-san isn't the killer, then it'll become troublesome. 


"No matter who did it, it's all annoying for me " 

Haruhi looked at me diagonally, 

"Kyon, in this mansion, besides the Tamaru brothers, there's only Arakawa-san and Mori-san 
left, and the five of us. Could the suspect be one of them? I don't want to suspect my own 
brigade, and I don't want to hand them over to the police." 

She sounded very calm saying that. 

I see, so you were worried about one of us being a murderer, huh? I never contemplated such a 
possibility. Asahina was out of the question, while Nagato would have done it in a more efficient 

manner; as for Koizumi that's right, Koizumi was the one closest to Tamaru-san. He said 

Tamaru-san was his distant relative, compared to total strangers like us, he certainly seemed 
much closer than us 

"No." 

I knocked my head softly. 

Koizumi's no idiot. He wouldn't deliberately do such a thing under these circumstances. I do not 
believe that he would kill someone just to satisfy the conditions for a closed circle. He's not that 
stupid. 

We don't need anyone else to have such a thinking pattern. We already have Haruhi. 


Outside of Keiichi-san's room on the third floor stood Arakawa-san with his legs apart. 

"I've called the police, and they've instructed me not to let anyone in." 

He lowered his head. The door remained as it was when we burst it open, I could barely see 
Keiichi-san's finger just behind Arakawa-san's shoulder. 

"When are the police coming?" 

Haruhi asked questioningly, Arakawa-san replied politely, 

"Once this storm subsides. According to the weather report, the weather would improve by 
tomorrow afternoon, so I guess they'll arrive by then." 



Hmm. 


Haruhi occasionally glanced into the room. 

"I have something to ask you." 

"What is it?" 

"Did Keiichi-san and Yutaka-san get along well with each other?" 

Arakawa-san's usual butler expression changed slightly. 

"To be honest, I'm not sure myself. Because I've only started working here a week ago." 

"A week!?" Both Haruhi and I exclaimed. 

Arakawa-san nodded without wincing. 

"Yes, I am indeed a butler, but I've been hired as a stand-in contractual butler. My contract 
stipulates that I would serve this mansion for two weeks during summer." 

"So does that mean you only work in this mansion and have not been by Keiichi-san's side 
before?" 

"Yes." 

So Arakawa-san is a stand-in butler hired by Keiichi-san. If that's the case, maybe 

Haruhi asked the same question I was about to ask, 

"Is Mori-san also the same? Is she also a stand-in maid?" 

"You're absolutely correct. She has also been hired for these two weeks." 

Such a lavish way for Keiichi-san to hire a butler and maid just for two weeks during the 
summer. I felt he may be a bit casual with how he spends his money, but to hire a butler and 
maid like that 

As I nearly revealed my thoughts, I immediately held them back again. I cautiously examined 
Arakawa-san's face. He looked like an old gentleman wearing a clean armour. He does seem like 
that sort of person, but 

I didn't say anything, and had that little thought buried deep within my heart. I'll ask him later 
when I see him. 


I see, so there are permanent and contractual servants, I've really learnt something new today. 



How is that knowledge new? Haruhi nodded as though fully understanding something. 

"Since we can't enter the room, there's nothing we can do here. Kyon, let's go to the next place." 
She pulled my arm and strode forward. 

"Now where're we going?" 

"Outside, to see if the boat's gone." 

I really didn't want to wander purposelessly with Haruhi under this stormy day. 

"I only believe what I see with my eyes. Information that gets passed around usually gets mixed 
up with unnecessary noise. Listen, Kyon, the most important observations are first-hand ones. 
Second-hand information from the eyes or hands of other people is not to be believed. 

Well, from a certain point, she was right. But does that mean besides those that enter our field of 
vision, we can't believe anything else? 

As I pondered about the effectiveness of the information medium, Haruhi had brought me to the 
first floor, where Mori-san was standing by the base of the stairs. 


"Are you two going outside?" 

Mori-san asked me and Haruhi, Haruhi replied, 

"Yeah, I want to see if the boat's still here." 

"I don't think it's here anymore." 

"Why's that?" 

Mori-san replied with a smile, 

"I saw Yutaka-sama last night, he seemed to be in a hurry as he left the entrance hall." 
I exchanged glances with Haruhi. 

"You mean Yutaka-san had stolen the boat and left the island?" 


Mori-san smiled softly and slowly moved her lips, 



"I only passed by Yutaka-sama in the corridor, I didn't actually see him go out. But that was the 
last I saw of Y utaka-sama. " 

"What time was it?" Haruhi asked. 

"I guess around one in the morning." 

That was when we were getting drunk and sleeping very soundly. 

Does that mean Keiichi-san fell on the floor during this time as well? 


Once the door was opened, the raindrops fell onto our bodies. We spent quite some time just 
trying to open the door, which had become very heavy due to the strong winds. In a few seconds, 
Haruhi and I were soaked wet from head to toe. If I had known, I would've prepared a swimsuit. 

The dark grey clouds extended towards the horizon, this reminded me of the Sealed Dimension 
we were trapped in before. I don't think I'll ever like seeing such a monotonous world. 

"Let's go!" 

Though her hair and T-shirt had been soaked so wet that they stuck to her body, Haruhi still 
bravely walked forward in the rain. I had no choice but to follow her, as she was still tightly 
grabbing my wrist. 



IP 


Though her hair and T-shirt have been soaked so wet that they stuck to her body, Haruhi still bravely 
walked forward in the rain. I had no choice but to follow her, as she was still tightly grabbing my wrist. 

The wind was so strong that if we had wings, we would be blown off easily. Braving the heavy 
rain, we finally managed to come to a spot where we can see the pier. If we were not careful, we 
could fall off the cliff. No matter how brave I got, I started to feel that things were getting bad. I 
think I would turn in my grave if it was only me that fell off, so I grabbed Haruhi's hand in 
return. I felt my chances of survival would be higher if I fell with her. 

We finally came to the top of the stairway. 

"You see it, Kyon?" 

Haruhi's voice scattered across the wind, I faced her and nodded, 

"Yeah." 

The pier was nearly covered in water, the only activity by the seaside were the large waves 
splashing upon them on the shores. 

"There's no boat. If it wasn't carried off by the waves, then it was driven off." 

That was our only means of leaving this island. Looking far, we could see no sign of that 
luxurious speedboat within the vast sea. 

And so, we've been isolated on this lone island. 


We returned to the mansion at a turtle's pace, by the time we made it inside, we were both soaked 
wet. 

"Please use these." 

Expecting our return, Mori-san had been waiting for us and handed us towels she had prepared. 
She asked with concern, 

"What did you find?" 

"It seems you are right." 

Haruhi wiped her hair with the towel, looking dissatisfied. 


The boat's gone, but we don't know when. 



I don't know if she was bom like that, but Mori-san's face continued to smile softly like the light 
of a firefly. Though Tamaru Keiichi-san's murder had shaken her a bit, yet her calm demeanor 
reflects her professionalism. Perhaps this reaction was quite normal for a for-hire maid. 

I apologized with Haruhi for wetting the entrance corridor, then we decided to return to our 
rooms to get changed. 

"Come to my room later." 

Haruhi said as she walked up the stairs. 

"At this moment, it's better to stick together. I just can't relax if I can't see everyone safe. If 
something were to happen " 

Haruhi stopped midway. I could understand what she was trying to say, so I didn't make any 
witty comments this time. 

We arrived on the second floor and found Koizumi standing at the corridor. 

"Welcome back." 

Koizumi carried his usual smile and gestured to us with his eyes. He was standing just outside 
Haruhi 's room. 

"What are you doing?" 

Haruhi asked, and Koizumi's smile became that of an embarassed one, he shrugged his shoulder 
and said, 

"I had wanted to come to Suzumiya-san's room to discuss what we should do next, but Nagato- 
san wouldn't let me in." 

"Why?" 

"Well " 

Haruhi knocked on the door. 

"Yuki, it's me, open the door!" 

After a brief pause, Nagato's voice came from behind the door. 

"I was instructed not to open the door for anyone." 

Asahina still seems to be sleeping. Haruhi played with the towel on her head with her fingers. 



"It's alright now, Yuki. So open the door. 


"That would be a violation of my order to not open the door for anyone." 

Haruhi looked at me with a startled look, then turned back to face the door. 

"Yuki, what I meant by anyone is people besides us! Myself, Kyon and Koizumi-kun are 
different. We're all companions in the SOS Brigade, right?" 

"No one said anything about that. What I heard was not to let anyone in; that is my 
interpretation." 

Nagato's calm voice sounded like a female priest spreading the messages of the gods. 

"Hey, Nagato!" 

I decided to cut in, 

"Haruhi has cancelled that order. If you don't believe it, I'll recite that order for her. So open the 
door! Please." 

Nagato seemed to consider that for a few seconds behind the door. The sound of the door 
unlocking can be heard and the door slowly opened. 


Nagato's eyes swept through our heads, and silently backed up inside. 

"Really! Yuki, you ought to be more flexible! You've got to understand the meaning properly!" 

Haruhi asked Koizumi to wait a bit while she changed and entered the room. I wanted to change 
into something dry as well, so I made my exit. 

"See you later then, Koizumi." 

I walked and thought about something. 

Was that all just a prank by Nagato? Yet it's a very hard-to-comprehend prank that could cause 
misunderstandings. 

Nagato, please. Nobody's going to think of it as a joke if you always carry that face with you. 
You should at least make a smile when you're pulling a prank. Or you could just smile 
meaninglessly like Koizumi, you'd look better like that. 

Though now's not the right time to pull any pranks. 



I removed my wet clothes and changed into a new set of clothes along with my underwear, then 
returned to the corridor. Koizumi is no longer there. I knocked on Haruhi's door. 

"It's me." 

Koizumi opened the door for me. As I stepped inside and closed the door, 

"I heard the boat's missing." 

Koizumi said leaning by the wall. 

Haruhi squatted on the bed. Even Haruhi, who was normally brash, didn't feel this was worth 
being glad over. She lifted her head looking troubled, 

"It's gone, right, Kyon?" 

"Yeah." I said. 

Koizumi said, 

"Someone must have driven it off. No, it's already meaningless to say 'someone.' There's no 
doubt the one who ran way is Yutaka-san." 

"How do you know that?" I asked. 

"Because there's no one else." 

Koizumi answered coolly. 

"Besides us, there was no one else who was invited to this island. The only invited guest that has 
disappeared from the mansion is Yutaka-san. No matter how you put it, he has to be the suspect 
who has escaped by boat." 

Koizumi continued with his smooth speech, 

"In other words, he is the killer. He must've escaped during the night." 

This matches with Yutaka-san's unslept bedsheets, and Mori-san's testimony. 

Haruhi told Koizumi about our previous conversation with Mori-san. 

"As expected from Suzumiya-san, so you've heard about it." 



I purposelessly made a "Hmph~." sound at Koizumi's blatant bootlicking. 

"Yutaka-san seemed to have left in a hurry as if he was afraid of something, this matches with 
the testimony by the last witness to have seen him. I've also confirmed this with Arakawa-san." 

But isn't it suicide to drive a speedboat at night into the middle of a storm? 

"Then it must be very bad for him not to leave the island, like trying to leave the scene of crime." 

"Can Yutaka-san drive the speedboat?" 

"We haven't been able to confirm that, but we should be able to deduce that from the results. 
Since the boat's now missing." 

"Wait!" 

Haruhi raised her hand and won her right to speak. 

"What about Keiichi-san's door? Who locked it? Did Yutaka-san do that as well? 

"Doesn't seem like it." 

Koizumi gently made a denial gesture. 

"According to Arakawa-san, both the master key and the backup key for that room are kept by 
Keiichi-san. After some searching, we found both keys inside the room." 

"Maybe someone made another duplicate key." 

I raised the question that came out of my mind, Koizumi shook his head. 

"This is the first time Yutaka-san has come to this mansion, I don't think he would have enough 
time to prepare a duplicate." 

Koizumi waved his hands in a surrendering gesture. 

The room fell silent, the unharmonious sound of the heavy wind and rain shook the air, 
becoming an insignificant distant memory. 

Haruhi and I were both speechless and remained quiet. Koizumi broke off this depressing 
silence, 

"But it would be strange if Yutaka-san were to have committed this crime last night." 


What do you mean?" Haruhi asked. 



"When I touched Keiichi-san, he was still warm, as if he was still alive recently." 

Koizumi gave a smile, then turned and faced the silent fairy sitting patiently like a maid by 
Asahina's side. 

"Nagato-san, what was Keiichi-san's body temperature when we found him lying on the 
ground?" 

"36.3 degrees Celsius." 

Wait a moment, Nagato, how do you even know Keiichi-san's body temperature without even 
touching him? And the way she answered the question so swiftly was as though she was 
expecting it I didn't express my doubts loudly. 

The only person with doubts would be Haruhi, but she seemed to be thinking of other stuff, as 
her head didn't turn towards this way. 

"Isn't that near the normal body temperature? When was the crime committed?" 

"When a person stops all living activity, the body temperature would drop by one degree Celsius 
per hour. From this we can estimate the time of death for Keiichi-san to be within one hour 
before he was found." 

"Wait, Koizumi." 

Time for me to cut in. 

"Didn't Yutaka-san escape during the night?" 

"Yes, that's right." 

"But you said the time of death was within one hour?" 

"That's correct." 

I pressed hard on my temple. 

"So does this mean Yutaka-san left the mansion at night and hid somewhere, then returned in the 
morning to kill Keiichi-san, and then escaped by boat?" 

"No, that's not the case." 

Koizumi casually rejected my theory. 

"Assuming a small margin of error for the time of death, it should be around one hour before we 
discovered him. But we were already gathered in the dining hall then. Not only did we see 



Yutaka-san, we didn't even hear any strange noise. Even in this storm, it would be too unnatural 
not to hear anything." 

"Just what's going on here?" 

Haruhi said frustratingly. She crossed her arms and glared at me and Koizumi. It's useless glaring 
at me! If you have any questions, ask the smiling hunk over there! 

Koizumi spoke softly again as though it were a normal conversation, 

"This isn't some mystery, just a tragedy." 

I sure didn't see anything tragic from the looks of your eyes. 

"I believe it is a fact that Yutaka-san has killed Keiichi-san, or there would be no reason for him 
to escape." 

Well, yeah? 

"I don't know what argument they had or what the motive is, the thing is Yutaka-san has attacked 
Keiichi-san with a knife. He must've hidden the knife behind his back, then suddenly revealed it 
and stabbed with all his force. Keiichi-san must've been almost defenceless as he was taken by 
surprise." 

It's as though you've witnessed the whole thing. 

"But the edge of the blade probably hasn't reached the heart. It probably didn't even scratched his 
skin. The knife merely penetrated the notebook on Keiichi-san's chest pocket." 

"Huh? What's that supposed to mean?" 

Haruhi frowned and asked, 

"Then why did Keiichi-san die? Did someone else kill him?" 

"No one killed him. There is no murderer in this case, Keiichi-san's death was a pure accident." 
"Then what about Yutaka-san? Why did he run?" 

"Because he thought he had killed someone." 

Koizumi replied casually and lifted his forefinger. Which super sleuth does he intend to turn 
into? 



"Let me tell you what I think what has happened. Last night, Yutaka-san went to Keiichi-san 
with the intent of killing him. He stabbed Keiichi-san with his knife, but the knife was stuck in 
the notebook, so no fatal wound was made." 

I really had no idea what he was trying to say, I decided to just let him continue. 

"But the trouble begins here. Keiichi-san truly believed he has been stabbed. Though the knife 
only penetrated the notebook, he could still feel the impact of the knife thrusting in. He must've 
been shocked after seeing the edge of the knife standing on his chest." 

I think I'm beginning to get where Koizumi was going. Hey, could it be 

"Being fooled by this illusion, Keiichi-san fainted. In this situation, a person would either fall 
sideways or backwards." 

Koizumi continued, 

"Seeing all this, Yutaka-san also believed he has killed him. The rest is simple, he can only 
escape. This murder probably isn't premeditated, but rather a killing motive that is borne of 
passion. That's why he has to escape by speedboat in the middle of a heavy storm." 

"Huh? But if that's the case " 

Koizumi interrupted Haruhi before she could continue, 

"Please let me continue. The key is the actions Keiichi-san took after he fainted. He stayed 
unconscious till dawn, all the way till we came to knock on his door when we were wondering 
why he hasn't got up." 

He was still alive then? 

"Keiichi-san was startled by the knock and got up and walked near the door. But as he would 
usually feel ill after waking up, he must've felt drowsy then. As he walked towards the door 
under this state, he suddenly remembered." 

"Remembered what?" Haruhi asked. Koizumi replied to her with a smile, 

"He remembered that he was killed by his brother. In a flash, the image of Yutaka-san wielding a 
knife reappeared in his mind, and Keiichi-san frantically locked the door." 

I couldn't stand this any longer, so I cut in, 


Are you saying that's the whole truth behind this sealed room? 



"Unfortunately, that's what I believe. Keiichi-san had lost all sense of time after fainting, he 
probably thought Yutaka-san had returned to finish him off. I think it was only a few seconds 
from him locking the door to us holding the door knob." 

"If the killer had wanted to return to give him the finishing blow, why would he knock on the 
door intentionally?" 

"Keiichi-san's mind was very blurry then, so this was the swift conclusion he made with his half- 
conscious mind." 

"After locking the door, Keiichi-san tried to back off from the door, thinking what a dire 
situation he was in. That was when the tragedy happened." 

Koizumi shook his head, as if telling a sad story. 

"Keiichi-san tripped and tumbled over like this." 

Koizumi bent his body and made a pose of tumbling forwards. 

"As a result, the knife which had only penetrated into the notebook in his chest pocket was now 
thrust into his chest with the force of the floor, leaving only the hilt outside. The knife had gone 
straight into Keiichi-san's heart, thereby killing him " 

Koizumi looked at me and Haruhi, whose jaws were opened like idiots, and said firmly, 

"That is the truth." 

What did you say? 

Keiichi-san died in such a ridiculous way? Is it really that simple? It was already strange enough 
for the knife to land right on top of the notebook, and it's also puzzling for Yutaka-san to not 
know he actually didn't kill anyone. 

I tried to organize my thoughts, preparing to argue. 

"AH!" 

Haruhi suddenly shouted, that gave me a fright. Why'd you shout all of a sudden like that? 

"But, Koizumi-kun " 

Haruhi said half way then stiffened up. Her face seems shocked, what was it that made her shout 
so loud? Was it something Koizumi said that she couldn't accept? 


Haruhi looked at me. Once our eyes met, she looked away and was about to look at Koizumi, but 
then changed her mind and decided to look at the ceiling for some reason. 



"Um nothing. That's got to be the case. Hmm, how should I put it?" 

She muttered incomprehensibly, then fell silent. 

Asahina remained sleeping, while Nagato looked at Koizumi with a blank stare. 


The meeting was adjourned for now. We decided to return to our rooms. According to Koizumi, 
once the storm's subsided, the police would come over at once. So we began to pack up and 
prepared to leave before the police arrived. 

After spending some time in the room, I carried a lot of questions and went inside one of the 
rooms. 

"Yes?" 

Koizumi lifted his head as he was folding his clothes and smiled at me. 

"We need to talk." 

There was only one reason I visited Koizumi. 

"I cannot understand." 

That was natural, as some of Koizumi's deductions were full of holes that couldn't explain itself. 

"Based on your deductions, the body should be lying face down, but Keiichi-san was found lying 
face up. How do you explain that?" 

Koizumi stood up and faced me smiling. 

This smiling idiot answered as a matter-of-factly, 

"That's simple, that's because the deduction I told everyone wasn't the truth." 

I wasn't surprised by that. 

"I guess you're right. The only one who would believe your deduction would be the unconscious 
Asahina. If I had asked Nagato, she would probably tell me the whole truth, but that's cheating 
and I don't like doing things that way. So why don't you tell me your real thoughts on this?" 


The smile which has distorted Koizumi's face now made a low and irritating laughter. 



"Then let me tell you! The truth that I told everyone was correct up to the middle, only the last 
part was wrong." 


I kept quiet. 

"It was correct up to when Keiichi-san walked towards the door with the knife on his chest. He 
then instinctively locked the door. I then made up the rest." 

Koizumi gestured me to sit down, I ignored that request. 

"Looks like you've noticed, I must've underestimated you." 

"Cut the crap and continue." 

Koizumi shrugged his shoulders, 

"We rammed the door with our bodies and burst it open. To be precise, that would have been me, 
you and Arakawa-san. Then when the door burst opened, we fell hard inwards." 

I remained silent and urged him to go on. 

"You must've realized what that would result in. Keiichi-san, who was standing in front of the 
door, was hit face on by the door, and the knife as well." 

I tried to visualize such a scene. 

"From this collision, the knife then killed Keiichi-san." 

Koizumi sat on the bed again and looked at me as though challenging me. 

"In other words, the killers would be " 

Koizumi smiled and said as though talking to himself, 

"Me, you and Arakawa-san." 


I looked down at Koizumi. If there was a mirror, I bet I could see myself with cold eyes. 
Koizumi ignored my reaction and went on, 

"Just as you have discovered, Suzumiya-san came to the same conclusions, that's why she didn't 
say what she wanted to say. She didn't want to report us, or maybe she wanted to protect her 
companions." 



Koizumi said without doubt. I still couldn't accept this. My cerebral neocortex hasn't aged to 
such an extent to be fooled by this second fake deduction. 

"Hmph." 

I mumbled and stared at Koizumi. 

"I'm sorry, but I don't believe you." 

"What do you mean?" 

"I think, after coming up with a flawed deduction, you've created a second theory to try and 
deceive everyone, but I won't be fooled by such rhetoric." 

Don't I look cool right now? Then allow me to continue. 

"Think about where the whole problem is! Let's start with the murder itself. How can such a case 
happen under such perfect conditions?" 

This time it was Koizumi's turn to remain silent, urging me to go on. 

"The typhoon may be random or created by Haruhi, but that's not important. The key is that 
what's happened has created a body." 

I paused and licked my lips. 

"You may think that this is exactly what Haruhi wished for. But no matter how much bullshit 
that girl comes up with, Haruhi wouldn't really wish for anyone to die. You can tell just by 
looking at her. This means the one who created this incident isn't Haruhi. Besides, our arrival at 
the scene of crime wasn't coincidental either." 

"Huh?" Koizumi said, "And why is that?" 

"The one who started this incident or to be exact, this summer field trip for the SOS Brigade, 

is none other than you, am I right?" 

As if being caught red handed, Koizumi's smiling face stiffened for a few seconds, but 

Koizumi began to giggle. 

"I surrender. How did you find out?" 

Koizumi looked at me, his eyes were the same as I saw them when in the Literary Club room. 
My cerebral grey matter isn't just there for looks, you know. I felt relaxed for a bit then said, 



"At that time, you asked Nagato for the body temperature." 

"And what's wrong with that?" 

"You deduced the time of death based on that." 

"Yes, I did." 

"Nagato is a very useful person. As you well know, she can tell us almost anything. Instead of 
asking her for the body temperature, you should've asked Nagato for the approximate time of 
death. No, I think she would even tell us the exact time rounding off to the nearest second." 

"That makes sense." 

"If you had asked for the time of death, Nagato would simply reply that the person isn't dead. 
Moreover, never once did you refer to Keiichi-san in that state as a 'body'." 

"That was a fair way to do it then." 

"And I may not look like it, but I do pay attention to things that matter, especially the interior of 
Keiichi-san's room door. From your deduction, the door should have landed on the hilt of the 
knife with a great impact, great enough to thrust the knife into a person's body. If that were true, 
there should be at least a dent on the door. Yet the door surface looked brand new." 

"Such amazing skills of observation." 

"One more thing, there's something strange with Arakawa-san and Mori-san. They both claim to 
only work here for less than a week. They were hired a week ago and came to this island, is that 
right?" 

"Yes, is something wrong with that?" 

"Of course there is, because your attitude was too suspicious. On the day when we first arrived, 
do you remember what you said to Arakawa-san and Mori-san who were waiting for us as we 
got off the ferry?" 

"What did I say?" 

"You said 'It's been a while.' Don't you find that strange? How can it be possible for you to say 
this to them? You've also said this is the first time you've been to this island, so it should be the 
first time you have met them. So how can you go and chat with them as though you've known 
them for some time?" 


Koizumi only giggled. 



This meant he had no intention of arguing with me. I understood everything as I began to feel 
exhausted. Koizumi then opened his mouth, 


"Yes, this was all previously arranged. A ridiculously short play. I just didn't expect you to find 
out." 

"Don't underestimate me." 

"I do apologize. Though I admit I'm surprised. I had wanted to find a time to eventually confess, 

I never thought the truth would be revealed so soon." 

"Does that mean Tamaru-san, Mori-san and the rest are all your accomplices? Your comrades in 
that 'Organization' of yours?" 

"That's correct. For a bunch of amateurs, don't you think their acting's superb?" 

The knife on the chest actually had a retractable blade; the blood is actually some red dye; 
Keiichi-san was of course faking his death; while Yutaka-san was merely hiding on the other 
side of the island with the speedboat. 

Koizumi cheerily revealed the truth. 

"Why did you do all this for?" 

"To cure Suzumiya-san's boredom, as well as reducing the burden on our shoulders." 

"What do you mean?" 

"Maybe I should tell you. To put it simply, to prevent Suzumiya-san from coming up with any 
funny ideas, we had prepared some entertainment for her. Right now isn't Suzumiya-san thinking 
about this the whole time?" 

Haruhi seemed to believe that we were the killers, was it necessary to go this far? 

Afterwards, Haruhi was unusually gentle. I really felt uncomfortable with that. 

"Then we ought to move our plans forward." Koizumi said, "According to our original plans, as 
we returned by ferry to Honshu island, Tamaru Keiichi-san, Yutaka-san, Mori-san and Arakawa- 
san would be greeting us cheerfully at the harbour there. Of course, they would conceal 
everything about the 'Organization'. As of right now, they're still my distant relatives." 

What a surprise party. 

I sighed deeply. This sort of prank only works on Haruhi. If Haruhi got pissed as a result, then 
you're responsible for dousing the flames, because I'll be running for my life. 



Koizumi winked and smiled, 


"Oh dear. I think I'd better apologize to her. I'll go and confess to her right away with Tamaru- 
san and the rest. It must be tiring for him to play a dead body for so long." 

I silently looked out of the window. 

What would Haruhi do? Would she be furious at being deceived? Or would she appreciate the 
joke and laugh out loud? No matter what the result, her inconsistent mental state sure is easy to 
predict today. Koizumi smiled wryly, 

"We even prepared people playing detectives and forensic experts, but it seems our hard work 
will go to waste. I never thought it would end in such a whimper. Our plan was to include a 
thorough search of the mansion and crime scene, such a pity." 

That would be because you didn't plan far enough. 

I looked at the gloomy sky and thought, how fine will the weather become in the next few hours? 


In the end, Koizumi didn't lose his vice-commander badge. After the typhoon left, on the ferry 
trip home under the clear blue skies, Haruhi was in a good mood all the way until we parted at 
the station. It's good that Haruhi has a simple mind of treating a joke as such. 

Of course, Koizumi had to end up buying boxed lunches and juice cans for everyone. For things 
to end so smoothly, I felt he had gotten off lightly. 

Nagato probably knew the truth from the beginning, and maintained her reactionless attitude. 
While Asahina yelled, "How can you do this?" after waking up and protested cutely. But when 
Koizumi, the Tamaru brothers and the two servants both lowered their heads and apologized, she 
quickly apologized back, "Ah, Kit's alright, don't let it bother you." 

By the way, after taking a photo on the deck on the ferry trip back to Honshu island, Haruhi 
made her booking, 

"We're counting on you for the winter field trip, Koizumi-kun. Next time come up with a more 
shocking script! We're going to the mountain villa next time, and it has to be in a blizzard. If you 
don't come up with a haunted mansion that suits my expectations, I'll really be mad. Hmm, I'm so 
looking forward to it!" 


Erm what should I do? 



Like a rookie Nazi officer being told by the Fiihrer to lead just a single Panzer division to capture 
the Allied commander on the western front at the end of the Second World War, Koizumi smiled 
awkwardly and turned to beg me for help. 

I looked at Koizumi, who was like a defender trying to stop what seemed like a great goal near 
the end of a soccer match when the scores are even after overtime, and said without hesitation, 

"Well, I'm also looking forward to it, Koizumi." 

I look forward that it will be a game that I could at least solve and not end up in a mess. 

At the same time, this is also the best way to stop Haruhi from getting too bored and coming up 
with any funny ideas. 


Author's notes 

Author's Notes 


I'm not too sure about the details, but it seems to be standard practice to write some sort of notes 
at the end of each book, everyone's so used to this practice that they've taken it for granted 
already. The editor even told me, "Write as many pages as you like," But this time, I've decided 
to let this opportunity pass this time, and instead write some comments regarding the short 
stories compiled in this volume just to make up the pages. 

I'll be putting down some brief thoughts about these stories, so I won't be stuffing you with the 
usual rubbish of "One year has already passed so quickly, let alone two months," so here we go. 


The Boredom of Suzumiya Haruhi 

This story carries the same title as the book itself. This is the first story where the reader gets 
reacquainted with the SOS Brigade. I think this story was published on the Sneaker magazine 
two months before "The Melancholy of Suzumiya Haruhi" got published. 


At first I was quite worried, since it didn't make sense to release a sequel before the main story 
even got published. Yet it seems I was the only person who was worried, as no one else seems to 
have any problems with it, I was relieved as well. As this story was thought up and written very 
quickly in a short time, I was concerned as to how well it would do. In the end no one said 
anything bad or good about it, at least I never heard anyone's comments, so I told myself that this 
isn't too bad either. 

By the way, as far as I can remember in my life, I've participated in not more than ten baseball 
tournaments. As a second baseman who couldn't catch any flying balls, there was nothing I did 
to make myself renowned. I also recently discovered that I have never scored a run before, 
though it's too late for me to be thinking of this, I'm still stunned whenever I think about it. 


Bamboo Leaf Rhapsody 

At first I wanted to call this story "The Apprehension of Asahina Mikuru," but then I thought 
people wouldn't be able to recognize this as part of a series, hence the name change. At that time 
I never intended that a short story I had just published would have a sequel. I still remember how 
surprised I was when I saw the magazine print the words, "To be continued" at the end of the 
story. That feeling is still fresh in my mind. 

As there was a time traveler, it didn't make sense not to have a story about time traveling, so I 
came up with this story. Yet deep inside I hoped that this would become the prelude to what's to 
come later on. 


Mysterique Sign 

Due to chance, this story took the least time from the moment I thought of it to its completion. 
Just as I was wondering what the characters should be doing, I realized I had already finished the 
story. Ever since publishing this story, I had wanted to change the series title to "Fight on, 
Nagato-san," but this way the story would end up in a dead-end, so I abandoned that idea in the 
end. However, of all the characters, she has the most potential for development, even I am 
expecting a lot from her. Nagato-san, please fight on. By the way, what should I do with the 
glasses? Would she look better with them after all? 


I had originally intend to give more scenes to the Computer Group president, but right now my 
thoughts are too disorganized, who knows how he'll develop. 



Lone Island Syndrome 


As a matter of fact, I started writing this before "Mysterique Sign," and had intended for this to 
be published first, but then I realized this story was getting longer as I kept writing. Due to my 
nature of wanting to take full responsibility for my works, this story has exceeded the pages 
originally intended for a short story. And as a result, this story has become the longest story in 
this book, a "bonus" that is neither too long nor too short. I still have a lot to learn from this 
lesson. I'm always thinking of ways to try and improve the way I work, but that's easier said than 
done. When I look back at my life, there were only a handful of times where I actually fulfilled 
what I told myself to do. For this reason alone, my brain has already regressed to that of an 
amoeba. 

Is there anyone out there willing to provide a luxury living quarters in a lone island for me to 
stay for one week? If you need a witness, I think I'm more than capable of doing the job. Of 
course, it's possible I would spend the whole day sleeping instead. 


And so, I'm very lucky to have published my third book. This is all thanks to everyone. I'd really 
like to list out everyone's names, job titles and even nicknames. This includes all my readers, 
though I don't think I could ever find out their names, all I can do is give you my most sincere 
thanks. 

Let us meet again in another place. 


Tanigawa Nagaru 



Suzumiya Haruhi Volume Four: The 

Disappearance of Suzumiya Haruhi 



Cover Page 



Inside Flap 







Prologue Flap 




Prologue 

Prologue 


It was a cold morning. So cold that it felt like the whole world would get neatly chipped up with 
some nice crisp cracks if it were poked with an ice pick. Or better yet, I would lead the pack to 
chip this freaking cold world up. 

Nevertheless, it was just natural to be cold; it was winter now. Until the Cultural Festival about a 
month ago, it had been so terribly hot. Then, just as it turned December, the weather chilled 
rapidly as if Mother Nature finally remembered, and now I experienced with this body of mine a 
Japan that had no Autumn this year. Don't tell me that a certain somebody mixed up a business 
prosperity rebus with a spell... That Siberian cold air system should just as well change its 
course. There is no need for it to come down every year like that. 

Had the Earth's revolution period gone crazy? Whilst I walked, giving sincere concern to Mother 
Nature's health, I heard "Yo, Kyon!" 

A frivolous guy ran up to me to pat my shoulder in a helium-light manner. It was too much of a 
chore to stop my tracks, so I just turned my head towards him. 

"Yo, Taniguchi," I replied, turned to face forward once again, and disdainfully gazed at the 
summit of the distant high hill. We commute up this slope every day, so why can't they go easy 
on us during physical education lessons? All the physical education teachers, like Okabe our 
class teacher, should be more concerned about the students who have to hike in order to 
commute every day. The teachers go by car, if I may point out. 

"Why are you talking like an old coot? Stride with a brisk pace! This is great exercise! It warms 
you up, doesn't it? Here, look at me, I'm not even wearing a sweater. Summer is the worst, but 
this season is just great for me!" 

It's fine to be so freaking high-spirited, but what’s your basis? Share some of that with me. 
Taniguchi's never-closing mouth twisted into a smile. 

"The term-end tests are over! Thanks to that, we're done learning for this year. Don't you think 
that's way more spectacular than what's coming soon?" 

The term-end tests fell indiscriminately on all students in this school, and ended just as 
indiscriminately. The only difference, if anything, was probably the number scribbled on the 
graded answer papers that were returned to students. 

I recalled Mom's expression when she started worrying about my impending cram school, and 
my mood sunk. When we enter eleventh grade next year, our class will be divided according to 


our preferred college. The arts course track or the science course track? Public college or private 
college? The choices made my head spin. 


"Who cares about that?" Taniguchi laughed away. "There are more important things to worry 
about, you know. Do you know what today is?" 

"December 17th," I replied. "What about it?" 

"What a dumb response! You don't even remember the special day next week which will set your 
heart flying?" 

"Oh I see." I realized the right answer now. "End-of-term ceremony. The winter break is 
definitely worth the wait." 

However, Taniguchi shot a glance at me like a small animal encountering a wildfire. "You're not 
serious, are you? The date in one week! Think! The answer should pop up like that!" 

"Hmm..." 

I snorted and drew out a cloud of white breath. 

December 24. 

I knew, all right. I had already foreseen a certain somebody brewing an evil plot or hoax for next 
week. Even if everyone missed this, the truth never escaped my eyes. The person who spotted 
such events even quicker than me just sat there, behind me. She had been lamenting missing the 
chance at Halloween last month, and there was no doubt she would strike this time. 

Well, to be honest, I already knew exactly what she was going to do. 

Yesterday in the clubroom, Suzumiya Haruhi had in fact made the following announcement... 


"Does anyone have plans for Christmas Eve?" 

Haruhi, who threw her bag in as soon as she closed the door, looked at us contemptuously with 
sparkling eyes like the three stars of Orion. 

The tone resounded with the unsaid implication, "You cannot possibly have any plans. I know 
this; that's crystal clear, right?" She would unleash a blizzard if anyone admitted to having prior 
plans. 

At that moment, Koizumi and I were playing a TRPG. Asahina, wearing her maid costume as if 
it were gradually becoming her normal wear, held her hands up in front of the electric stove. 
Nagato was reading the latest science fiction hardcover, moving only her finger and eyes. 



Haruhi placed a big handbag she brought along with her schoolbag on the floor, and walked 
towards me. Sticking her chest up, she looked down at me and proclaimed, 

"Kyon, I know you don't have any plans whatsoever. There's no need to ask, but I’d feel bad if I 
didn't confirm it anyway, thus my question." 

A smile like that of the world's most famous cat was drawn across her face. Giving the dice I was 
about to throw to Koizumi, who was smiling conspiratorially, I turned to face Haruhi. 

"What if I do have plans? Answer that first." 

"So that means you don't have any!" 

Nodding self-indulgently, Haruhi took her eyes off me. Hey, stop for a moment! I still haven't 
answered your question! ...Well, it's not as if this was the only time I had no plans. 

"Koizumi, are you going to be on a date with your girlfriend?" 

"How pleasant it would be if that were the case!" 

Shaking the die on his palm, Koizumi gave a dramatic sigh. It was in fact deliberate, and stank 
strongly of insincerity. 

"Whether it should be considered fortune or misfortune, my schedule before and after Christmas 
is void and empty. I have been twisting and turning alone, worrying about how I should spend 
the time." 

That smiling handsome face of his just spelled out LIAR. However, Haruhi drank in his story 
without a doubt. 

"No worries! It's the greatest of all blessings!" 

Then Haruhi set sail towards the maiden maid. 

"Mikuru-chan, how about you? Did anybody invite you out 'to see the moment when rain turns to 
snow in the middle of the night?' By the way, if you find anybody telling you this load of crap 
with a straight face, just beat the crap out of him." 

Staring at Haruhi with big, wide-open eyes, Asahina looked taken aback by this sudden cross- 
examination. 

"Well, I guess so. For the moment there is nothing... Eh, middle of the night...? Ah... anyway, let 
me get you some tea..." 


Volcano hot, please! The herb tea from some time ago was really fabulous, 



Haruhi put down her order. 


"Y— Yes! It won't take a minute." 

Asahina put the kettle on the portable gas stove with a beaming face. Was making tea really that 
much fun? 

Nodding along in satisfaction, Haruhi turned to Nagato at last. 

"Yuki?" 

"No." 

Nagato gave a short reply without lifting her head up from the pages. 

"There you go." 

Ending the straightforward chirping conversation, Haruhi faced me again with an arrogant smile. 
I looked at Nagato's pale face, her full attention to the book as if the conversation had nothing to 
do with her, and thought to myself, she might as well save her breath on such witty repartee. At 
least take some time to pretend to remember your schedule ! 

Haruhi held up a hand. 

"The motion for a SOS Brigade Christmas party is thus passed unanimously. If there are 
alternatives or objections, please hand them in after the party. If I need to read them, I'll read 
them." 

In other words, it was the well-known situation once again: her words would not be taken back 
once they were said, no matter what. It was literally just a gesture, but when compared to half a 
year ago, Haruhi asking everyone's plans could be considered an improvement. Well, it'd even be 
better if she asked for everybody's opinions instead of their plans. 

With a face brimming with satisfaction that everything went as expected, Haruhi stuck her hand 
into her handbag on the floor. 

"By the way, nobody can come unprepared for a season like Christmas, right? So I bought a few 
items. The right way to spend the season starts with mood-creating gadgets!" 

Out of the bag came spray-on snow, gold and silver lace, crackers, a miniature tree, reindeer 
plushies, white cotton, Christmas lights, wreathes, red-and-green banners, a tapestry of the Alps, 
wind-up snowmen, thick candle stands, huge Christmas stockings that could hold a 
kindergartener, CDs of Christmas songs... 

With a smiling face like a neighborhood big sister that gives children candy, Haruhi neatly 
placed the various Christmas-related items on the table one by one. 



"I will inject festivity into this nondescript room. The introductory step towards enjoying 
Christmas proactively and positively starts with appearance. Didn't you guys do the same thing 
when you were little?" 

No matter whether I did do that or not, my sister's room would definitely be well decorated for 
Christmas some days later. Mom will probably force me to help decorate again this year. By the 
way, my sister, who's turning eleven and going into the fifth grade this year, seems to still 
believe in Santa Claus somehow. She's not aware of my parents' cover-up job, which I happened 
to figure out long ago at the beginning of my life. 

"Learn from your sister's innocent heart! One must start by believing in a dream. Otherwise, even 
the attainable will be out of reach. Nobody wins the lottery without buying a ticket, you know. 
You might wish for someone to give you a winning lottery ticket worth a million dollars, but that 
won't happen!" 

Haruhi, howling in delight with unparalleled skill, took out a triangular party hat and put it on 
her head. 

"When in Rome, do as the Romans do. When in a village, follow the village rules. Christmas 
also has its own rules to follow. That's why there are not many people who would celebrate a 
birthday in a bad mood. Hey, even Mister Christ would definitely rejoice seeing us having fun!" 

There have been many theories related to the birth of Christ, as even the year he was born is 
shrouded in mystery. But again, I'm not dumb enough to recite all the theories while being 
oblivious to the atmosphere. Moreover, on hearing that there's multiple suggested dates for the 
birth of Christ, Haruhi would certainly blurt out "Well, then make each one of them Christmas!" 
and we would end up bringing out the tree many times each year. It would only be a fuss if we 
overrule the beginning of A.D; there is no help for it. Whether it is the Roman calendar or the 
ancient Babylonian calendar, it is just means to suit human matters. For the heavenly bodies that 
silently revolve in the vast universe these matters are nothing to be concerned about, and they 
will continue doing their thing until the end of their lives. Oh, how wonderful the universe is! 

My youthful spirit was tickled instinctively by the secrets of the Great Universe, but Haruhi 
didn't give a damn about my dreams. Like a panda enthusiastically improving a room's decor, 
Haruhi rolled around putting small Christmas decorations on all corners of the room, putting a 
triangular hat even on the reading Nagato, and hammering the words "Merry Xmas!" on the glass 
windows using her snow spray. 

That's fine, but from the outside the words would be backwards, you know? 

While Haruhi concentrated on her activities, Asahina-san toddled towards us like a nutcracker 
doll, carrying a plate of teacups. 


Suzumiya-saaaan, tea is ready. 



Asahina-san's appearance, with her maid-style smile, was still heavenly today, sending fresh 
enrichment into my heart no matter how many times I looked. Even after meeting her tragic fate 
nearly every time Haruhi said something, Asahina-san seemed to be comfortable with the 
Christmas party this time. Compared to giving out flyers in a bunny suit or appearing in movies 
wearing sexually harassing costumes, it would be a much more refined fun to enjoy a party 
everyone in the Brigade could cuddle in. 

But, will it really be just that? 

"Thank you, Mikuru-chan." 

Haruhi took the cup in high spirits, and stood there gulping down the herb tea. Asahina-san 
watched with an innocent smile. 

Haruhi drank up all the hot liquid in a few seconds, and the smile on her face grew twice as wide 
as before. 

A bad omen. That's the smile she has when she's thinking of something down-and-dirty. After a 
long time by her side, even I could spot it. 

The problem was... 

"Marvelous taste, Mikuru-chan. It cannot be called a gift of gratitude, but I'd like to give you 
your present a little early." 

"Oh, really?" 

The dainty maid fluttered her eyelids. 

"It's true. So true, that there's no truth above it. It's as true as the moon revolving around the 
earth, and the earth revolving around the sun. You might not believe Galileo, but believe me!" 


"Uh, y-y-yes." 


Haruhi reached into her bag once again. 

Detecting a sense and turning my head around, I met eye-to-eye with Koizumi, who gave a shrug 
and a faint forced smile. I'd like to snap on him for being so vague, but I somehow got it. He 
hadn't joined the Haruhi bunch for over half a year for nothing, and it'd be strange if he couldn't 
guess what would happen next. 

Yes, I thought. 


The problem was that there isn't a person or medicine in the world that can cure Haruhi's whims. 
I would grant the highest honors to whoever would invent that, personally. 



Da-daaan! 


With a childish sound effect, Haruhi took out the last Christmas item from the bottom of the bag. 
And that was... 

"That... that is..." 

Asahina-san retreated reflexively, and Haruhi proclaimed with the expression of an aged mage 
passing her beloved staff to her disciple. 

"Santa, that's it! Santa! Doesn't that fit like a glove! It goes without saying; you can't highlight 
this time of the year without a season-specific outfit! There you go! I'll help you change." 

Closing gradually in on the retreating Asahina-san, Haruhi unfolded in her hands — a Santa Claus 
costume, no doubt. 


Then, Koizumi and I were thrown out of the clubroom, and could only imagine Haruhi 
conducting Asahina-san's costume-changing scene in vain. 

"Eh" "Ah" "Ughh" The mournful faint cries bombarded me with unwanted images, and made me 
imagine that I could somehow see through the door. Okay, the time had probably come for me to 
really go nuts as well. 

After quite a stretch of time immersing himself in the imaginary tale, Koizumi struck up a 
conversation, perhaps to kill time. "I feel sorry for Asahina-san." 

The guy with too much good looks and good manners leaned against the wall with his hands 
folded. 

"It makes my heart at ease when I see Suzumiya-san enjoying herself. It pains me most when 
Suzumiya-san looks annoyed." 

"Because a strange space is created whenever she is irritated?" 

Throwing his bangs up using one index finger, he replied, 

"Yes, because of that as well. Nothing scares me and my partners more than the existence of 
Sealed Realities and Avatars. It might look easy to deal with, but it really is hard work. I thank 
my lucky stars that since this spring, the frequency of occurrences has gradually been 
decreasing." 

"Which means it still happens from time to time?" 



"Rarely. Recently it only happens from midnight to sunrise, when Suzumiya-san is asleep. Most 
likely when she has bad dreams, she creates Sealed Realities subconsciously." 


"She's a troublemaker, whether she's asleep or awake!" 

"Not at all!" 

It was a sharp snap for Koizumi, and I was honestly a little shocked. Koizumi put away his 
smile, and gave me a long hard look. 

"I guess you do not know what Suzumiya-san was like before she entered high school. From 
three years ago when we started our observation to the time she entered high school, it was 
unimaginable that she would laugh so happily every day. It all started when she met you — no, to 
be exact, when you two returned from the Sealed Reality. Suzumiya-san's psyche has stabilized a 
lot, it's incomparable to how it was in junior high." 

I returned Koizumi's stare without a word, as if I'd be defeated if my eyes wandered off. 

"Suzumiya-san is obviously changing. In a good direction, I might add. Our desire is to keep this 
situation going, and I believe the same goes for you. To her now, the SOS Brigade is an 
indispensable gathering. Here she can find you, she can find Asahina-san, Nagato-san is 
essential, and pardon my conceit, but I guess I am also. All of us nearly became one heart and 
one flesh." 

Now that's just your logic. 

"That's true. However, it doesn't sound bad, does it? Do you want to see Haruhi setting her 
Avatars loose hour by hour? Excuse me, but it is certainly not a good hobby." 

That's not my hobby, and I won't consider turning it into one. I need to state this clearly! 

Koizumi flipped his expressions, returning to his usual ambiguous smile. 

"I am relieved to hear that. Speaking of changes, they are not limited to Suzumiya; we all are 
changing. That includes you, Asahina-san, and me. Perhaps Nagato-san as well. Besides 
Suzumiya, everybody will more or less change their way of thinking." 

I backed away. Not because I got hit on the spot. I didn't take any of it personally, so I did not get 
hit figuratively. What I found surprising was that this guy had also noticed Nagato changing, bit 
by bit. The cheating baseball game, the Tanabata that spanned three years, the cave cricket 
eradication, the murder drama on the isolated island, the looping summer break... As we were 
buzzing around doing this and that, Nagato's limited gestures and attitudes had tiny, but definite 
changes. A far cry from our first meeting at the Literature Club, which was the beginning of 
everything. It was no illusion. I observed with eyes like hand-made telescopes. Now that I 
thought about it, that girl had already seemed a little strange, even on the isolated island. Even at 
the public pool. Even at the Obon Festival Dance. She showed even stranger behaviors when she 



was forced into the role of a mage for the movie, and the computer game battle against the 

Computer Society... 


But, isn't that good? Haruhi's changes are great , but I think Nagato's are more important! 

"For the sake of world peace," Koizumi said with a smile, "organizing a Christmas party is a 
cheap price to pay. Furthermore, if it turns out to be fun, I find no reason to complain!" 

Just as I became somehow offended that I could not find a line to retort, the door sprang open 
suddenly. 

"There you go!" 

The door opened inwards, and naturally I, putting my weight against the door, fell clumsily on 
my back with a loud thud. 

"Hiehh!?" 

The voice was neither mine nor Haruhi's, but Asahina-san's, and the voice came from above. In 
other words, lying on my back looking towards the ceiling, I saw not the ceiling but something 
else. 

"Hey, Kyon! Don't peep!" That'd be Haruhi. 

"Hwa, ahh..." And that'd be Asahina-san, who was completely off guard as she cried and jumped 
backwards. I swear to the myriad of deities, I only saw her legs! 

"What are you lying there waiting for? Get the hell up!" 

Grabbed by the collar by Haruhi, I eventually managed to stand up. 

"You peeping Kyon! Trying to peep on Mikuru-chan's underwear? You are two-million-five- 
thousand-six-hundred years behind! That was deliberate, right? RIGHT!?" 

It was your fault, opening the door without giving a signal. It was an accident. An accident, 
Asahina-san! — The words were on my lips, but then my eyes were drawn elsewhere. Who is 
asking what again? 

"Wawa..." 

There was nothing in my eyes but Asahina-san, standing with a brush of pink on her cheeks. 

Red clothing with white lining. A red hat with a fluffy ball at the end... wearing only those, 
Asahina-san grabbed her short skirt with both hands, and looked intently at me with curiously 
teary eyes filled with embarrassment. 



That had to be Santa, perfect from all angles, impeccable and without fault. That had to be 
Asahina-san's true identity at that moment — the granddaughter of a senile Santa who had 
secretly transferred the family estate to her. 

Upon being told this, 80% of people would fall for it. My sister would definitely be one of the 
80%. No doubt. 

"Just fantastic." It was Koizumi expressing his opinions. "My apologies, but I could only come 
up with hackneyed expressions. Yes, it suits you very well. Definitely." 

"I knew it!" 

Haruhi cuddled on Asahina-san's shoulders, and rubbed her cheeks against the eye-rolling 
Asahina-san's face. 

"Isn't she super adorably cute? Mikuru-chan, be more confident in yourself! From now until the 
Christmas Party, you will be the SOS Brigade's Santa Claus! You have all the qualifications for 
this!" 

Asahina-san panted pitifully. However, this time Haruhi was correct. Nobody would refute that, I 
thought to myself. As I turned to Nagato, unsurprisingly, the petite, short-haired, silent girl just 
continued her reading. 

She was still wearing her triangular hat. 


After that, Haruhi lined us up in a row, and stood in front. 

"Understood? In these times, it's not okay to absent-mindedly follow any Santa you see on the 
street. They're fakes. The real one only exists in special places on the earth. Mikuru-chan, you 
need to be extra careful! Don't get stuff easily from a Santa you don't know. Don't nod to 
whatever they say." 

Not good advice, after you coerced Asahina-san into being a fake Santa. 

Don't tell me that this girl, despite her age, and like my sister, still believes in that elderly fellow 
who's in the business of international volunteering. Well, it is the same girl who hung wish 
messages to Orihime and Hikoboshi, so it's not impossible. However, I just kept my doubts to 
myself. I mean, hey, Saint Asahina had revealed herself in this room! There it was, a fake that 
surpassed the real thing. What more could you wish for? If one wished for anything more, 
complaints would come from any of the three Scandinavian countries. 


I was pondering on the source of capital within the shadow of this sluggish old man working 
only once a year. 



"Hey, Kyon. The idea of having a grand Christmas party is good in itself. This year the idea 
came too late, so it can only be for Christ's birthday. But next year we have to include birthday 
parties for the Buddha and Mohammad. It wouldn't be fair otherwise!" 

Why not throw in the birthdays for founders of Manichaeism and Zoroastrianism? Watching this 
bunch of unbelieving lads celebrating, these figures, who should be above the clouds by now, 
can do nothing but force a laugh. Well, Haruhi wasn't doing all this to celebrate anyway; she just 
wanted an excuse to make a fuss, so I guess it evens out. However, if someone is going to 
receive divine punishment, please place the blame solely upon Haruhi. My role as her 
accomplice was really small, you know. 

In that situation, to which deity should I make my excuse? I was pondering this as Haruhi settled 
in the Brigade leader's seat and gave me a scornful glance. 

"What would be nice? Hotpot? Sukiyaki? Crab is a no-no. I can't take it. Picking the flesh out of 
the shell drives me nuts. Why can't crabs make their shells edible? How come they didn't do 
anything about that during the course of evolution, might I ask?" 

That's exactly why they evolved shells! They don 't undergo natural selection in the depths of the 
sea just for the sake of your stomach! 

Koizumi raised his hand and spoke up. 

"Then we must book a place in advance. The holiday is approaching, and everywhere will be 
fully booked if we don't hurry." 

Well I just don 't think I'm inclined to go to places he recommends. Maybe the nuthead shop 
owner will pop up in the middle of dinner and stage another murder comedy beyond everyone's 
wildest expectations. 

"Oh, no need to worry about that." 

As if she had the same impression that I did, Haruhi shook her head with a smiling face. But this 
was what she said next: 

"I'm having it here. The necessary hardware is already here. The only thing left is the food. Let's 
see... Better bring a rice cooker. By the way, alcohol is strictly prohibited, since I have vowed in 
my heart that, for my whole life, I will not drink." 

I'd rather have you vow something else... But another point came first that could not be 
dismissed without consideration. "Having it here?" I looked around the room. 

The room already had a pot and a portable stove ready, and there was even a fridge here. Haruhi 
brought everything in during the dawn of the SOS Brigade, but don't tell me that they were all 
for the sake of this day! Till now, the portable stove had been useful in helping Asahina-san 
serve real tea. But at school, and in such an old and shabby clubroom block, was it really a good 



idea to cook in the first place? It isn't wise to ignore this. An open flame is prohibited in this 
building! 

"It'll be fine." 

Undeterred, Haruhi beamed like a culinary prodigy who somehow had solid skills without even a 
cooking license. 

"In this case, it's more fun to hide. If the student council or one the teachers bust in, I'll show 
them my spectacular hotpot preparation. This is the plan: wait till then, and they will be so 
overwhelmed by the delicacy that they will tearfully grant special approval for our party! 
Flawless! Perfect!" 

Though being scornful to anything bothersome, Haruhi could do anything well if she had to do it. 
So I guessed her cooking expertise definitely lived up to her words. But a hotpot? When had it 
been decided? The conversation had went up to the point when crab was decided to be no good, 
but she pretended to collect opinions and then suddenly reached the conclusion herself — well it's 
not as if this was the first time. Forgive, and forget... 


And so, that's what happened yesterday. As I told Taniguchi a short version of this, we arrived at 
our school. 

"Christmas Party..." 

When we passed through the school gate, Taniguchi was still having trouble hiding his laughter. 

"Those are definitely Suzumiya's trademark actions. A hotpot party in the clubroom. Well, make 
sure that the teachers don't find out! It'd turn into trouble again if they did." 

"Are you coming, then?" 

Due to what we had discussed earlier, I tried to invite him. If it were Taniguchi, even Haruhi 
probably wouldn't mind. He, Kunikida and Tsuruya-san had become the Filler Trio whenever we 
had a problem finding people. 

However, Taniguchi shook his head. 

"I am so sorry, Kyon. That day, I have no spare time for messing around eating some dumb 
hotpot! Wuahaha" 


What on earth is that disgusting laugh about? 



"Listen: gathering a group of strange pals and poking into a hotpot in a Christmas Party is only 
for unpopular geeks. I am very sorry, but I have bid my farewell to the group." 


Are you for real? 

"Well, think of me as exactly the one beyond your imagination. I have already crafted a red heart 
mark on the 24th of my schedule! My apologies. My HEARTFELT apologies. I am SO, S00 
SOOOORRY!" 

What the hell is going on? How come that dumbass Taniguchi can land himself a girlfriend, 
while I'm playing mysterious games with Haruhi and the others in the SOS Brigade? 

"Who is she?" 

I asked, trying as hard as I could to not sound cynical. 

"A tenth grader from Kouyouen. A safe bet isn't it?" 

Kouyouen Academy. The all-girls high school next to the station down the hill. It is located 
exactly at the starting point of our excruciating hike, so it is a common morning scene to see the 
Daimyo's Parade of girls wearing black blazers as their uniform. The school is famous for its 
classy ladies, but even more enviable is that they do not need to walk the murderous slope. No, I 
wasn't jealous of Taniguchi at all. 

"What's the problem? You have Haruhi already! Hotpot... And she's making it, right? Hotpot as a 
self-made cuisine does sound a little dumb and cheap to me, but I'm sure it'll fill you up. I'm 
jealous, Kyon!" 

That bastard. He brought up Christmas Eve just to satisfy his desire to show off? 

"Hmm, I guess it is about time to decide on some initial plans for where and how to spend the 
time. I am so troubled!" 

I was losing my spirit, and my words. 


After school, nothing special happened. Koizumi and I were chased around the clubroom putting 
up the new decorations Haruhi had brought. Haruhi gave commands and pointed around with her 
finger. Asahina-san, clad in a Santa outfit, was mascot-cum-tea-server. And today, Nagato was 
reading a hardcover book... while, once again, wearing the triangular hat on her head. 

Then came the end of the day. The hotpot's contents were still undecided. The only decision in 
the meantime was that I would be assigned as the carrier and sent outside for shopping. What on 
earth would that hotpot be? I'd rather not have a potluck, with its smell of sinister schemes. 



This is too long for a prologue. However, the above really is just a prologue, nothing else. The 
real action comes from this point onwards, starting the next day. It might have started tonight, 
but it doesn't really matter. 

The next day was December 18, when even the mountain breezes were frozen. That day, I was 
thrown into the abyss of fear. 

Let me say this in advance: it was no laughing matter. 


Chapter 1 

Chapter 1 


In the morning, I woke up under my sister's usual killer blanket-strip-away move, together with 
the tri-colored cat that wrapped itself in the blanket beside me. This is my sister, the early- 
morning assassin who carried out Mom's orders dutifully. 

"Mom said you should eat some breakfast properly." 

Smiling, my sister held up the grudging cat from the bed with both arms, and brushed her nose 
against the back of its ears. 

"Shami too! Time to eat!" 

Shamisen, who had become our house pet after the Cultural Festival, yawned with a blank face 
and licked its front paw. The originally-talkative tri-colored male cat had completely lost its 
voice, and established its status in our home as merely a pet. It had become a nondescript cat 
found everywhere - as if I had hallucinated that this cat had ever spoken in human language, 
now that I thought about it. The cat is great and not fastidious: its purrs are seldom, close to 
absent, as if it has forgotten cat language along with human language. Somehow it made my 
room its bed, and thus grew silent to the frequent dropping by of my sister, who is avid in taking 
care of Shamisen. 

"Shamiiii, Shamiiii. It is time to eat!" 

Singing with lyrics that didn't match the rhythm, my sister exited the room while hugging the cat 
with apparent effort. Getting goose bumps from the cold morning air, I glared down at the clock 
face for a short time. Finally I struggled up, abandoning the lingering affection for my warm bed. 


Afterwards, I changed, washed, went down to the dining room, gulped down breakfast in five 
minutes, and exited the doorway much earlier than my sister. Today the weather was cold again, 
in good progress. 

Until now, everything had proceeded normally. 


I was climbing the usual slope when the familiar back-of-the-head was within sight. The figure 
ten meters or so in front of me was Taniguchi, no doubt. Usually, this guy gleefully bounces and 
jumps up the hiking path, but today he was definitely walking slowly. After a moment, I caught 
up with him. 

"Hey, Taniguchi!" 

It would be nice to take the initiative to pat him on the shoulder from time to time, I thought to 
myself, and did exactly that. 

"...Hmm, Kyon?" 

The voice was surely muffled. Of course; Taniguchi was wearing a white mask. 

"What's up? Got a cold?" 

"Eh...?" Taniguchi looked worn out. "A cold, as you can see. To be honest, I would rather take 
absence, but my old man was noisy about it." 

He was so full of energy yesterday, but then suddenly caught a cold, I saw. 

"What the hell? I was also feeling unwell yesterday! *Cough cough*" 

Okay, don't mess up my pace, just because I was not accustomed to seeing Taniguchi coughing 
and looking weak. But was he already close to being sick yesterday? I could only see the 
scatterbrain as usual. 

"Hmm... Really? I did not intend to look well." 

Taniguchi tilted his head, and I gave a spiteful smile. 

"You had been piping merrily about your Christmas Eve date, hadn't you? Well, get well 
quickly, before the date! Such a chance rarely visits your door, you know!" 

However, Taniguchi tilted his head even more. 


Date? What the hell? Idiot. I have no plans for Christmas Eve! 



The "What?" question should have come from me. What happened to his girlfriend at Kouyouen 
Girls High? Did he get dumped just last night? 


"Hey, Kyon, what the hell are you talking about? I know nothing of this!" 

Taniguchi grumpily shut his mouth, and turned to walk forward again. Every cold symptom 
seemed to be in effect, and his frailty did not look pretended. Moreover, judging from his 
condition, his date plans were surely toast, and he would just as surely be exhausted. With his 
pompous claims beforehand, it was definitely tearing his heart apart just to meet me face to face. 
I see, I see. 

"Don't look so grim!" 

I pushed Taniguchi's back. 

"Why not join the Hotpot Party? We can still count you in now!" 

"What hotpot? What party are you talking about? I don't remember hearing such a thing..." 

Oh, really? The shock was so great that whatever I said would fall on deaf ears for quite some 
time, I guessed. Let me be the one holding his hand then. Everything would be solved by the vast 
never-ending flow of time. I would not mention the matter anymore, I promise. 

Taniguchi continued to drag himself up, and I also continued my climb slowly besides him. 

It was still impossible for me to notice at that moment. 


I was caught off guard: the cold had turned into an epidemic within Class 1-5 without me 
noticing. I got into the classroom just before the bell rang, but there were still a couple of empty 
seats, and one fifth of the whole class had caught the white mask fad. The only explanation was 
that all of them had double booked their cold's incubation period and onset period. 

I was even more surprised to find that the seat right behind me had been unoccupied since the 
first lesson. 

"This is unbelievable..." 

Was Haruhi taking sick leave? Was the cold that nasty and rampant this year? It is unbelievable 
that there are pathogens that exist which are courageous enough to invade her body, not to 
mention how unbelievable it is that Haruhi can be struck down by germs or viruses. The more 
convincing explanation was that Haruhi was preparing for some new scheme she had just 
thought of. Maybe there would be something else besides a hotpot? 



The classroom ambiance was bleak, and it was not because there were no air-conditioners. A 
sudden increase in absentees. It even looked like the total population in Class 1-5 had somehow 
dropped. 

It was true that I could not feel the overwhelming presence of Haruhi from behind. But at the 
same time, I also felt that the atmosphere had changed inexplicably. 

Then came the lessons I took idly, after which, the lunch break smoothly followed. 

As I was taking the stone cold lunchbox out of my bag, Kunikida approached with his lunch in 
one hand, and sat behind me. 

"Seems like you are taking a break. Mind if I sit here?" 

Kunikida said as he was unwrapping his Tupperware from its napkin. After becoming classmates 
in high school, it turned into half a habit to have lunch with this guy. I searched for my other 
lunch mate Taniguchi, but he was not in the classroom; perhaps he went to the school cafeteria. 

I turned my chair sideways. 

"Somehow the cold has suddenly turned so popular. Thank God I’m not infected, though." 
"Hmm?" 

Kunikida was putting his Tupperware carefully on the spread out napkin and examining the 
contents, and he returned a dumbfounded look at me. Moving his chopsticks like a crab with its 
claws, Kunikida spoke. 

"Symptoms of the cold spreading were already noticeable a week ago! It doesn’t look like the 
flu, but it might be better if it were the flu. Since there are specific remedies nowadays." 

"A week ago?" 

I stopped cutting up my spinach-laced omelet, and asked again. 

I could not think of anyone spreading the cold germs the same time last week. Nobody had been 
absent, and nobody was coughing in lessons as far as I could remember. Everyone in Class 1 -5 
looked healthy, but could it be that the Devil of Ailment had been operating secretly outside my 
sight? 

"What? There were quite a few people absent. Didn't you notice?" 

I didn't at all. Was that for real? 


"Sure it is. It turned increasingly worse from the start of this week. Please don't isolate the whole 
tenth grade though. Winter break would be chipped off otherwise, I bet." 



Kunikida stuffed some more furikake rice into his mouth. 


"Taniguchi had also been green to the gills these days. His father's principle was to cure ailment 
by vigor, and he could not take leave unless his temperature was over 40 degrees (Celsius). I 
hope that he will be doing something before the cold gets worse." 

I stopped my chopsticks. 

"Kunikida. Sorry, but I thought Taniguchi started being almost dead today." 

"Oh no, no way. He has been like that since the beginning of this week, hasn't he? He took a 
break from yesterday's physical education time." 

I was becoming increasingly confused. 

Wait, Kunikida. What on earth are you talking about? As far as I can remember, in yesterday's 
physical education lesson, Taniguchi took on a football rival match with vigor, as if he was on 
steroids. I could not be mistaken, as I was in the opposing team, and repeatedly slide-tackled 
him. I was not being resentful to Taniguchi's getting a girlfriend, but if I had known what would 
happen today I would probably have thought twice before tackling him. 

"Are you sure? Really? That's strange!" 

Kunikida tilted his head as he was picking out the carrots from the Kinpiragobou dish. 

"Did I see it wrong?" 

He said in an easy-going tone. 

"Hmm, well we’ll see when Taniguchi comes back." 

What on earth has happened today? Taniguchi and Kunikida are talking as if they were behind 
thick fog, and even Haruhi is absent! Don't tell me that this is an omen for happenings that 
trouble the whole human race except Haruhi. My usually nonexistent sixth sense began to sound 
sirens, and strange creeps suddenly ran up the back of my neck. 


I was correct. 

My gut feeling was not to be belittled. There was no doubt that it was an omen. What my gut 
feeling did not tell me was whom this would trouble. The whole human race except Haruhi. . . 
well, not exactly. Surprisingly as it seems, only one person noticed and was troubled by this turn 
of events. Except for this poor person, the entire human race was not at all troubled. It's because 
there was no way they could perceive the beginning of this incident itself. There's no way one 



could perceive something outside of one's perception. From their shoes, the world had not 
changed at all. 

So who was the troubled one? 

The answer was apparent. 

Me! 

I stood dumbstruck within the confusion, and ended up being left behind by the world. 
Yes, I finally realized. 

The lunch break of Dec 18. 

The omen came in a physical form, and it opened the classroom door. 


Wow! A couple of girls seating at the classroom front near the door burst into shouts of joy. The 
shouts were apparently from recognizing the classmate who just entered. From the gaps within 
the loose group of sailor clothes, I caught a glimpse of that person at the center of attention. 

With a bag dangling in one hand, that person gave a smile to the approaching friends. 

"Yes, I'm all right now. I felt much better right after I took the injection at the hospital in the 
morning. Having nothing to do at home, I figured I would come back to school, even just for the 
afternoon lessons." 

A gentle smile answered the question if the cold had been cured. Ending the short lively 
conversation, with semi-long hair swaying, that person gradually... walked — towards — us. 

"Oops, gotta go!" 

Kunikida bit on his chopsticks and got up. For me, it was as if my vocal cords' voicing abilities 
had all been confiscated, or even as if I had forgotten to suck in oxygen through respiration. I 
merely stared at that person. The flow of time seemed infinite, but in fact, she had only walked 
a few steps. When the footsteps finally stopped, that person was standing right next to me. 

"What's wrong?" 

While looking at me, she said hackneyed expressions in a mystified tone. 

"You look as if you’ve seen a ghost! Or is there something on my face?" 


Then she turned to Kunikida, who was trying to tidy up his Tupperware. 



"Oh, just let me hang my bag. Please continue with your lunch. I already ate before I came. 
During lunchtime, I will lend my seat to you." 

Just as we were told, she hung her bag on the hook at the desk's side, and turned her body 
gracefully towards the ring of waiting friends. 

"Wait." 

I guess my voice must have turned shrill. 

"Why are you here?" 

That person turned around, and stabbed me with a cool glance. 

"What do you mean? Is it strange that I am here? Or do you mean that it would be better if I were 
out with a cold for longer? What exactly do you mean by that?" 

"Not that. I don't care if you have a cold or not. Not that..." 

"Kyon." 

Kunikida poked my shoulders worriedly. 

"You are so strange today! Kyon has been saying strange things all day." 

"Kunikida, don't you think of anything when you see this person?" 

Unable to withstand it anymore, I stood up and pointed with my finger to that person, who was 
looking at me as if she witnessed an enigma. 

"You also know who this is, don't you? This person shouldn't even be here!" 

"...Kyon, how rude it is to forget your classmate's face just because she took a brief leave! What 
do you mean by that I should not be here? We have always been in the same class, haven't we?" 

No way could I forget! This attempted murderer! Even if I were to forget the face of a person 
who would like to kill me, half a year was a little too short. 

"I see." 

That person spread a smile across her face, as if she had just thought of a super prank. 

"You took a nap after lunch didn't you? Are you sure you are not having a bad dream? That 
should be it. Come on! Wake up!" 



"You think so?" With a broad smile on her lovable face, that person turned to Kunikida for 
agreement. She took the appearance of the girl whose image had been etched into my brain and 
could not be shrugged off. 

Flashbacks of various images. A classroom basked in sunset — shadows extending on the floor — 
walls without windows — distorted space — the wielding of a knife — a wisp of a smile — sand- 
like crystals that crumbled down... 

Annihilated after defeat in her battle with Nagato, she was the original class representative, who 
on the surface, had transferred to a school in Canada. 

Standing here was Asakura Ryouko. 


"You'll be refreshed if you wash your face. Do you have a handkerchief with you? I can lend you 
mine." 

Asakura put her hand into her skirt pocket, and I stopped her with my hand. Who would know if 
she took out more than her handkerchief? 

"No thanks. Rather, tell me what is happening. Everything. In particular, tell me why you are 
leaving your bag at Haruhi's seat? This isn’t your seat, it's Haruhi's." 

"Haruhi?" 

Asakura knitted her eyebrows, and asked Kunikida. 

"Who is Haruhi? Is there someone with such a nickname?" 

Kunikida returned an answer that ended all hope. 

"Doesn’t ring a bell. Haruhi-san... How do you write it?" 

"Haruhi is Haruhi!" 

I mumbled with a dazzling sensation. 

"Have you all forgotten about Suzumiya Haruhi? How can you guys ever forget such a person?" 
"Suzumiya Haruhi... Well, Kyon." 


With a comforting voice, Kunikida slowly divulged. 



"Such a person is not in our class! By the way, since the seating rearrangement earlier, this seat 
has already been Asakura-san's. Are you confused with another class? Hmm, I have never heard 
of a Suzumiya before. Shouldn't be in the tenth grade..." 

"I don't have any idea either." 

With the voice of a gentle cat, Asakura spoke as if urging me to receive treatment. 

"Kunikida-kun, can you take a look inside my desk? At the corner there should be a class name 
book." 

I snatched away the notebook that Kunikida took out. I first opened the page of Class 1-5 of the 
First year, and ran my finger against the list of girl names. 

Saeki, Sakanaka, Suzuki, Seno... 

Not a single name was between Suzuki and Seno. The name of Suzumiya Haruhi had 
disappeared from the class name book. Who are you searching for? Such a girl does not even 
exist in the first place! The page screamed out loud, and I closed the name book and my eyes. 

"...Kunikida, I have a request." 

"Yes?" 

"Pinch me on the cheek. I want to wake up." 

"Are you sure?" 

He put his whole force in it. It was painful. But I did not wake up. Opening my eyes, I could still 
see Asakura standing there, curving her lips into an arc. 

What on earth had happened? 

I suddenly realized that we had become the center of attention in the class. The eyes were all 
focused on me, as if they saw an aging stray dog that suffered from canine distemper. Dammit! 
Why? I did not say anything wrong! 

"Dammit!" 

I asked two questions repeatedly to the people around me. 

Where is Suzumiya Haruhi? 

Didn 't Asakura Ryouko transfer? 


Don't know. 



Nope, she didn't. 


The answers I got did not smell good at all. As if on cue, they affected me to the point of 
dizziness and nausea. I could only support my body by putting my hand on a nearby table. Some 
part of my sanity seemed to be shattered. 

Asakura put her hand on my wrist, and peered into me worriedly. The sweet aroma from her hair 
was like narcotics to me. 

"Seems like you should go to the nurse's office. These kinds of things can happen when you are 
not feeling well. It must be so! Are you starting to develop a cold?" 

No way! 

I would like to scream out loud. I was not the strange one! This situation was strange itself! 

"Get your hands off me!" 

I pushed away Asakura's hand, and ran for the classroom exit. The slight unpleasant feeling on 
my skin was seeping into my brain. The cold that broke out all of a sudden, the gap in 
conversation with Taniguchi, the disappearance of Haruhi's name on the name book, the 
appearance of Asakura... What? Haruhi was gone? Nobody remembered her? That couldn't be! 
Wasn't this world revolving around that girl? Wasn't that girl THE Blacklisted Character on the 
Universal Scale? 

On the verge of stumbling over, I pumped my legs hard, and stepped forth onto the hallway 
almost on all fours. 

The first thing that came to mind was Nagato's face. She would definitely explain the situation to 
me. After all, it was Nagato Yuki, the silent but omnipotent alien android. Every single time she 
would sort things out. It is no exaggeration that I could survive thanks to Nagato. 

I have Nagato! 

And she would rescue a person like me from this stranded situation! 

Nagato's class was in sight. Without needing to run, I arrived a few seconds later. Unable to 
think of anything, I opened the door and searched for the petite short-haired figure. 

Not there. 

But it was too soon to give up. In lunchtime she most probably was in the clubroom reading 
books. Even though she wasn't in the classroom, it would be unwise to conclude that even 
Nagato had disappeared. 



The next guy in mind was Koizumi. The literature clubroom, located in the old wing, was far 
from here. The building was even beyond Asahina-san's eleventh grade classroom. It would be 
faster to go to Class 1-9 one story below. Koizumi Itsuki, just be there! In no other situation 
would I want to see his all-smiley face even more. 

I ran at a dogtrot along the hallway, jumped down the stairs skipping three stair steps, and head 
towards Class 1-9 at the corner of the school building, while I was praying for that supernaturally 
powered dude to be there. 

Passed Class 1-7, passed Class 1-8, and there Class 1-9 would... 

"What? How come?" 

I stopped, finally starting to realize, and checked once again the plates that hung out from the 
wall. On the left of Class 1-8 was Class 1-7. On the right of Class 1-8 was. . . 

Only the staircase landing leading to the emergency stairs. 

Nothing else. No trace of anything. 

"Of all things who could imagine that. . .?" 

Not to mention no Koizumi. 

The entire class of 1-9 was gone. 


I really had my hands tied now. 

Who could have even imagined that the classroom that had existed yesterday would be gone 
today? It wasn’t as if just a single person had disappeared, the whole class had been erased, and 
the building itself shrunk. No matter how rushed the work was, it would be impossible to finish it 
all in just one night. Where had all the Class 1-9 people gone? 

The great shock had knocked loose my perception of time. God knew how long I had frozen on 
the spot there, before I regained consciousness by a slight jab in my back. In the cloud I heard 
the voice of a biology teacher, who looked like a marshmallow hugging some textbooks. 

"What are you doing here? Lessons have started! Return to your classroom!" 

I must have missed the chime signaling the end of the break. The hallway was already cleared of 
people, and echoed only the raised voice of a teacher from the Class 1-7 classroom. 


I staggeringly started to move. The time for ascertaining the signs was up. Things had already 
been set in motion. Those who should not have existed appeared, and those who should exist 



were gone. Exchanging Haruhi, Koizumi and all students in Class 1-9 for just Asakura was not 
up to scale! 

"What the hell?" 

If I wasn’t going nuts, the world had gone nuts. 

Who did that? 

Was it you, Haruhi? 


Thanks to all that, I heard absolutely nothing from the afternoon lessons. All voices and sounds 
slipped straight out of my mind, and all information failed to be implanted in my brain cells. 
Before I noticed, even homeroom had finished, and time had become after school. 

I was frightened, not so much by Asakura who was scribbling with her mechanical pencil behind 
me, but rather that both Haruhi and Koizumi were not at school. Even seeking reconfirmation 
from other people made me irritated beyond endurable limits. "Doesn't ring a bell." Every time I 
heard the line, I sank deeper into a bottomless swamp. I was not even recharged with enough 
energy to get my butt out of my seat. 

Taniguchi walked straight home with Kunikida, who felt a little anxious about me. Asakura left 
the classroom in merry laughter with a couple of girls. She took a look at me before she headed 
out, a look showing sincere concern for a depressed classmate, and my head felt dizzy from it. 
Fishy. All of them. 

Nearly dragged behind by some guys for cleanup duty, I finally managed to step out onto the 
hallway, with my bag in one hand. 

After all, this wasn't where I belonged after class. 

With a heavy heart I walked down the stairs and reached the first floor. Over there, a slit of light 
appeared in front of my eyes, and I dashed off towards it. 

"Asahina-san!" 

Could there be any merrier sight than that? Walking towards me from the other side was my 
goddess, my eye-stress relief medicine. What added joy to joy was the figure of Tsuruya-san 
beside the glamorous baby-faced beauty. The overwhelming joy busted my sensibility afar. 


— I probably should have been a little more prudent. 



I rushed towards the two seniors with amazing speed, and gripped hard the shoulder of Asahina- 
san, who widened her eyes at me. 

"He-eh!" 

The shock was apparent on her face, but my mouth just kept on speaking. 

"Haruhi is gone! Koizumi's class has turned into the Drifting Classroom! I haven't found Nagato 
yet, but Asakura is here, and the school's become a strange place itself! You're still my Asahina- 
san, right!?" 

Bang! It was the sound of Asahina-san's bag and calligraphy set dropping onto the floor. 

"Eh? Ah, he... Eh. Well... But..." 

"So are you Asahina-san from the future?" 

"...The future? What do you mean? And, please... let go of me." 

The pit of my stomach cringed. Asahina-san looked at me just like a domesticated impala that 
had seen a wild jaguar. Her eyes were clearly filled with fright, and that was what I feared most. 

Just as I was shocked stiff, I felt my arm twist upwards. Upsetting cracks sounded from my 
joints. Ouch! 

"Wait a sec, young lad!" 

Tsuruya-san grappled my arm using techniques from ancient martial arts. 

"Stop jumping on people! Look, my Mikuru is shaking from head to toe!" 

The voice was laughing, but the glance from her eyes was sharp as a sword. I looked at Asahina-san. She 
was definitely retreating with teary eyes. 




/ 


The voice was laughing, but the glance from her eyes was sharp as a sword. I looked at Asahina-san. She 
was definitely retreating with teary eyes. 

"Are you a first- year from the Mikuru Fan Club? There are procedures to everything, young lad. 
Rushing things doesn't impress me." 

The psychological chill I experienced so many times today ran down my spine. 

"Tsuruya-san..." Still locked in a udegarami position, I wriggled out a sound. 

Tsuruya-san looked me squarely in the face, as if I were a complete stranger to her. 

Tsuruya-san, you too...? 

"Hey, how come you know me? By the way, who are you? Mikuru's acquaintance?" 

I saw something I least wanted to see. Cringing behind Tsuruya-san, Asahina-san gave me a 
closer look, and shook her head furiously. 

"D...D.. .Don't know him at all. E..Eh. He must have confused me with somebody else..." 

Feeling as if I received the scorecard of complete failure for this year, just when my tenth year 
was drawing to a close, my eyes grew faint. I would be silent to anyone attacking me with any 
words, but Asahina-san's words were the biggest shock to me, ever since my cousin, who I had a 
crush on when I was young, eloped with another boy. 

Surely I did not confuse her with anybody else by calling Asahina-san Asahina-san, unless this 
Asahina-san was an Asahina-san from some other time. ... Oh, I got it! There was one way to 
find out whether this Asahina-san is actually the Asahina-san I knew, right? 



Asahina-san. 


I pointed my free hand to my own chest. I can only say I lost my mind. My mouth moved itself 
with the following line, 

"There should be a star-like birthmark somewhere around here on your chest. Do you have one? 
If you are okay with it, let me check—" 

I was hit with a full-force punch. 

By Asahina-san's fist. 

Asahina-san, dumbfounded by the line I spurt out, turned redder by the second. Tears welled in 
her eyes, and in a slow, novice-like motion she blasted a right straight punch to my face. 
"...Urgh" a sobbing sound escaped from her throat as she ran off. 

"Hey, Mikuru! Ah, whatever. And you, young lad, keep your otaku stench in check! Mikuru- 
chan is pretty timid, you know! If you dare to do anything to her again, you'll feel my hair- 
standing fury!" 

Giving me an unwelcomingly tight final grip on my wrist, Tsuruya-san picked up the bag and 
calligraphy set on the floor, held them to her chest, and ran off chasing Asahina-san. 

"Hey, wait a bit— Mikuru—" 


Watching them, stupefied, a cold wintery wind blew inside my head. 

That's the end to it all, no doubt. 

Could I survive tomorrow? If news that I made Asahina-san cry spread around the school, there 
would be more than a few guys who would come attack me. If the situation were reversed, I 
would do the same as well. Maybe I should prepare my will. 


I was gradually pushed to my wit's end. I called Haruhi's cell phone, only to hear the operator's 
"the phone number you have dialed is no longer available." I had no record of her home phone 
number, and her name was erased completely from the namebook. I considered going off to her 
house, but on second thought I hadn't even been there before. It was unfair considering that 
Haruhi had been to my house, but it was too late to think of that now. 


Disregarding the disappearance of Class 1-9, 1 went to the staff office to ask whether Koizumi or 
Haruhi was taking sick leave somewhere. The result was flat negative. There was no student in 



any class with the name Suzumiya Haruhi. There was no transfer student in this school or 
coming to this school with the name Koizumi Itsuki. Or so I heard. 


I had come to a dead end. 

Where could the leads be? Was this a Where's Haruhi game organized by Haruhi? Was it a game 
with the goal of reaching where the disappeared Haruhi had gone? But what was this game for? 

I thought as I walked. Thanks to Asahina-san's single punch, my head cooled off a little. There 
was no use burning my ass off. In such a moment, I needed to be calm. Calm. 

"Please, I beg you." I murmured. 

There was only one destination now. It was the final foundation, the final absolute defense line. 
If this were to fall, then all would end. Game over. 

The literature clubroom, located at the clubroom block normally referred to as the Old Block. 

If Nagato wasn't there, what could I possibly do? 

I slowed my pace deliberately, and inched towards the clubroom taking all the time I needed. 
After a few minutes, standing in front of the old and worn wooden door, I put my hand on my 
chest, confirming my heart rate. It was far from normal operation, but it was a lot better than at 
lunch break. Probably my senses had gradually gone numb after too many hits from the string of 
anomalies. I was driven to the corner. There was no path ahead of me except to barge into the 
cloud of darkness, with the worst-case scenario in my mind. 

I skipped knocking on the door, and threw the door wide open. 

It f n 

And then I saw. 

A petite figure sitting on a makeshift chair, with a book spread at a corner of the long table in 
front of her. 

It was Nagato Yuki, staring straight at me through her glasses, with her face written all over with 
surprise, her mouth popping open. 


"You're here..." 

I muttered a sigh of half resignation, half relief, and closed the door behind me. Nagato did not 
say anything as usual, but I couldn't loosen myself and rejoice. The Nagato I knew did not wear 



glasses, ever since the incident with Asakura. However, the Nagato here had the exact same 
glasses she had worn some time ago. I thought about it the second time, but Nagato just looked 
cooler without her glasses. That was my preference. 

Moreover, that expression just didn't match. What was with her face, like a female Literature 
Club member caught off guard by a male student dashing in, someone she didn't recognize at all? 
What was with the surprise? Isn't it characteristic of Nagato to be furthest away from such 
emotions? 

"Nagato..." 

With the lesson from Asahina-san fresh in my mind, I managed to suppress my about-to-pounce 
upper body, and walked to the table. 

"What?" 

Nagato replied without moving an inch. 

"Tell me. Do you know me?" 

She tightened her lips, and pushed the bridge of her glasses. Then came a long period of silence. 

I was thinking of giving up, and find myself a monastery to retreat from this world, when a reply 
came. 

"I know you." 

Nagato put her gaze somewhere around my chest. My hope welled. This Nagato might be the 
Nagato I knew. 

"In fact, I also know a little bit about you. Would you listen to me for a second?" 


"You are not human, but an organic android created by aliens. You had wielded impressive 
powers like magic several times, like the homerun-mode bat, and invasion to Cave Cricket 
Space..." 

As soon as I started talking, a sense of regret gradually crept into me. Nagato was apparently 
making a strange face. Her eyes and mouth were open, and her gaze was wandering around my 
shoulders. The ambience around her read like she felt frightened to look straight at me. 

"...That was you whom I knew all along. Was it correct?" 


I am sorry. 



Nagato's reply made me doubt whether my ears were working properly. Why apologize? Why is 
Nagato saying this? 

"I do not know. I know you are a student in Class 1-5. 1 see you from time to time. However, I 
know nothing except that. To me, this is the first time I've talked to you." 

The final foundation turned into a house built on loose, weathered sand, collapsed and crumbled. 
"...So you're not an alien? The name Suzumiya Haruhi does not ring a bell to you at all?" 

Nagato tilted her head in confusion, savoring the word "alien" on her lips. 

"Nope," she replied. 

"Wait a sec!" 

Except for Nagato, who else could I rely on? I was like an infant swallow being abandoned by its 
parents. My only chance of keeping sane was through her doing something. If this went on, I 
would go crazy. 

"No way!" 

Oh no, I was losing my composure once again. My mind was in confusion, with meteor showers 
of the three primary colors flying around like crazy, I circled around the table, and approached 
Nagato's side. 

The pale fingers closed the book. It was a thick hard-cover. I could not catch the title in time. 
Nagato stood up from her chair, and shifted one step behind as if to retreat from me. Her two 
eyes, like polished black Go stones, were rolling in hesitation. 

I put my hands on Nagato's shoulders. I lost my self-composure to look back to my recent failure 
with Asahina-san. I was totally focused on not letting Nagato go. If I hadn't grabbed her like that, 
all my friends would have slipped through the cracks of my fingers, I feared. I didn't want to lose 
anyone anymore. 

With my hand feeling her body heat through the school uniform, I talked to her profile framed in 
short hair, as she was turning her face away from me. 

"Please remember! The world changed when yesterday turned to today. Haruhi's been replaced 
by Asakura! Who is behind this player substitution? Information Synthesis Thought Entities? 
Asakura was resurrected, so you must know something! You and Asakura are from the same 
mold, right? What is this scheme, huh? Even if you use big words, you should still be able to 
explain—" 

Just like what you have done all along, I was about to continue, but I sensed the feeling of liquid 
lead spreading inside my stomach. 



What was this reaction... similar to a normal person's? 

Nagato's eyes were tightly shut, and a blush of red began spreading on her ceramic-like pale 
cheek. Moans, like faint sighs, escaped from her slightly parted lips, and I finally noticed the 
quivering of her delicate shoulders under my hands, like a puppy under chilling air. A shivering 
voice reached my ears. 

"Stop it..." 

I recollected. For some time now, Nagato's back was stuck against the wall. In other words, I had 
forced Nagato against the wall without noticing. What had I done? I was behaving like a thug, 
wasn't I? If anyone had witnessed this, I would immediately have my hands handcuffed behind 
my back, and receive judgement from the public. When viewed objectively, I was nothing but a 
bastard who attacked a meek female member when there were just the two of us in the literature 
club room. 

"I’m sorry." 

Holding my hands up, I felt strength draining out of me. 

"I didn't mean to attack you. I just wanted to confirm something..." 

My knees felt weak. I pulled a nearby folding chair to my side, and collapsed in it like some 
mollusk straight after landing. Nagato did not move at all, with her back to the wall. It could only 
be considered lucky that she hadn't dashed out of the room. 

I swept my eyes across the room one more time, and realized in one glance that this was not the 
secret base for the SOS Brigade. In this room were lines of bookshelves and folding chairs, and a 
desktop computer on top of a long makeshift table. The desktop was not the latest model Haruhi 
had snatched from the Computer Society using blackmail, but a model at least three generations 
older. Comparatively speaking, the processing power difference was like that between a two- 
horse phaeton and a maglev. 

The Captain's desk, on which a prism with the word "Captain" was written on it, was nowhere to 
be found, as expected. The refrigerator and the rack of various costumes were absent as well. No 
board games brought by Koizumi. No maid. No Santa's granddaughter. Nothing at all. 

"Damn it!" 

I held my head with my hands. Game over! If this is someone's psychological attack, 
congratulations on her resounding success ! I would give her first honor. So who was behind this 
experiment? Haruhi? Information Synthesis Thought Entities? Some undetected new enemy of 
this world? ... 

It lasted for around five minutes. Struggling to lighten up my mood, I sheepishly lifted up my 
head. 



Nagato, still plastered to the wall, fixed her ebony-like eyes on me. Her glasses were slightly 
tilted. My only thanks to the heavens were that Nagato's eyes did not show fear or horror, but 
glistened like those of a sister who was reunited with her supposedly-dead brother on a 
downtown street by chance. At least it didn't seem she was going to report the incident. In the 
midst of such panic, this was the only tiny source of relief. 

Why don't you sit? I started, but realized that I had taken Nagato's chair. Should I give her the 
seat, or should I unfold another chair? Oh, and she might not want to sit near me. 

"Sorry." 

With one more apology, I stood up. Taking one propped up folded chair aside, I moved to the 
center of the room. Judging an ample distance from Nagato, I unfolded and sat on the chair, and 
continued to hold my head in my hands. 

This was just one small literature club. One day in May, Haruhi dragged me here like a berserk 
industrial robot, and we met Nagato for the first time. The room I saw at that first encounter was 
exactly like this. At that time, this room was only equipped with the tables, the chairs, the 
bookshelves and Nagato. Since that time, miscellaneous accessories began to appear, all because 
Haruhi had announced, "From now on this will be our club room!" Among the accessories were 
a portable heater, a kettle, a clay pot, a fridge, a desktop... 

"Wait." 

I removed my hands from my head. 

Wait. What was here again? 

A hanger rack, a water heater, a teapot, teacups, an old radio cassette player... 

"Not these." 

Search for items that didn't exist in the room before it turned into SOS Brigade's den, existed 
afterwards, and exist now in this room! 

"The desktop!" 

The model was definitely different. Only the power cord crawled on the floor, so most likely it 
was not connected to the internet. However this was the only item that caught my attention. It 
was the only answer to the "Spot the Difference" game, (translator note: Referring to the game to 
catch differences between two pictures.) 

Nagato was still standing. Her eyes were fixed on me for a long time, as if I were worthy of full 
alert. But when I turned my face towards her, her gaze immediately dropped to the floor. Taking 
a better look, I could actually see a blush of red again around her cheeks. Hey... Nagato. This 
isn't you! You never let your eyes wander and your face be reddened in confusion! 



Maybe it was futile, but I pretended to be unperturbed as I stood up, in an attempt to not alert 
her. 


"Nagato," 

I pointed to the back of the desktop. 

"Could I play with this for a bit?" 

Nagato's expression was first shocked, and turned little by little into perplexity, as her eyes 
darted between me and the desktop a few times. She inhaled deeply. 

"One moment." 

Clumsily she brought her chair in front of the desktop, pushed the switch on the main unit and 
sat down. 

To boot up the operating system, it took as long as it took to cool down a hot can of coffee, just 
purchased, to a temperature cats could drink. After a sound resembling a squirrel's nibbling of 
tree roots finally came to a stop, Nagato swiftly operated the mouse, which I guessed was to 
move or delete files. Maybe there was something she didn't want others to see. I understood her 
feelings. I wouldn't want anybody to see the MIKURU folder either. 

"Here you go." 

In a small voice Nagato said without looking at me, left her seat and stood guard at the wall. 
"Sorry for the trouble." 

Settled on the seat, I quickly peered into the screen, and used all the techniques I could muster to 
search for the MIKURU folder and the SOS Brigade site file. The sense of futility weighed down 
my shoulder. 

"...Not here." 

Despite everything I had done, I couldn't find the connection. The proof of Haruhi's existence 
was nowhere to be found. 

I wondered what data Nagato had hidden earlier, but I could feel a surveillant gaze shooting from 
behind. The atmosphere was like she was poised for pulling the plug immediately as soon as the 
not-to-be-seen data was about to be discovered. 

I stood up from my seat. 

The computer probably didn't contain any hints. What I really wanted to see was neither 
Asahina-san's photo gallery nor the SOS Brigade website. I was hoping to see a hint message 



from Nagato displayed, just like the time when Haruhi and I were imprisoned in the Sealed 
Reality. My hope was shot down mercilessly. 

"Sorry for the fuss." 

I apologized with a tired voice, and turned to the door. I'm going home. Then I'm going to bed. 
Then something surprising happened. 

"Wait." 

Nagato pulled out a coarse piece of paper from a gap in a bookshelf, and stood in front of me 
hesitantly. With her eyes looking around the knot of my necktie, she spoke. 

"If it's fine with you..." 

She held out a hand. 

"Take this." 

The paper handed to me was a blank club sign-up form. 


Well. 

I should at least be thankful that I had already encountered all sorts of absurdity by now. 
Otherwise, I would, without a doubt, be running around looking for a counselor. 

Examining the situation, either I had become nuttier than a fruitcake, or the world was 
completely off its tracks, but now I could almost cross out the former possibility. I am always the 
sober one, and I acknowledge myself as the levelheaded tsukkomi commentator towards 
everything under the Sun. Hey, I can butt in a comment even to this incomprehensible world, 
like this: Nandeyanen ?/What the heck? 


I grew silent, Nagato-style. In many ways, it turned a little cold. There was a limit to all my 
faked courage. 

Nagato had turned into a bespectacled book-loving girl. Asahina-san had turned into a foreign 
senior. Koizumi had never transferred to North High, probably still studying somewhere else. 


What on earth was this? 



Did it mean I was to start over from the very beginning? If so, wasn't the season off? If it were a 
reset, it should have returned to the very beginning... which meant returning to the first day of 
high school life, didn't it? I had no idea who pressed the reset button, but changing only the 
environmental settings while keeping the time flow intact was just plain confusing, you know! 
Look at me now, completely disoriented and bewildered. I had thought that role was reserved 
only for Asahina-san! 

And where was that other girl now? Where was that dumbass, getting away with her comfortable 
life, while I was out in the cold, in such a place? 

Where is Haruhi? 

Where are you? 

Show your face, now! Is this unnerving or what? 

"...Damn. Why do I need to search for you?" 

Or, don't you exist at all here, Haruhi? 

Stop the joke, will you!? I don't know why the heck I would think like this, but the story can't go 
on without you showing up! It is plain unreasonable to throw such depressing mournful emotions 
at just me! What's the matter with you? 

With a lingering image of professional slaves carrying gigantic boulders up a slope for 
constructing a mausoleum, I looked up at the slightly overcast chilly sky from the connecting 
hallway. 

The club sign-up form rustled inside my pocket. 


When I returned to my bedroom, it was Shamisen and my sister who greeted me. My sister, with 
innocent laughter, was wielding a rod with a rumpled furball at the tip. Shamisen, lying flat on 
the bed, was repeatedly hit on the head by the rod. Shamisen narrowed its eyes as if it was 
annoyed, and sometimes raised its paws against my sister's attacks. 

"Oh, welcome back-" 

My sister looked up at my face with a smile. 

"Dinner is about ready. Dinner -da-nya, Shami-" 


Shamisen also lifted up its head, but soon gave a big yawn, and lazily fought back against my 
sister's continuous bristle grass attacks. 



Ah, there was still one remaining hope in this. 

"Hey." 

I snatched the bristle grass rod, and hit my sister's forehead lightly. 


F 


r 


I A V\ MV 

4 w 
> :..dL 

X 


i 


A 

4 


gn 

When I returned to my bedroom, it was Shamisen and my sister who greeted me. 

"Do you remember Haruhi? How about Asahina-san? Nagato? Koizumi? Weren't we playing at 
the baseball match together, and appearing in the film?" 

"What-, Kyon-kun? Not a clue-" 

Then I held up Shamisen in my arms. 

"When was this cat in this house? Who brought it here?" 

My sister's round eyes became even closer to circles. 

"Humm... Last month. You brought it back, Kyon-kun, didn't you? Remember? You got it from a 
friend who had moved abroad. Right, Shami-?" 

Snatching the tri-colored cat from my arms, my sister brushed her cheek against it affectionately. 
Shamisen, which sleepily narrowed its eyes, looked at me from afar with an I-give-up 
expression. 

"Give me that." 

I grabbed the cat back. Shamisen's whiskers were shaking, apparently annoyed by being treated 
like merchandise. Sorry, I'll reward you with dried food afterwards. 



"I need to have a word with it. Just the two of us. So, get out of my room. Now!" 

"Hey, I'd like to talk too. That's unfair, Kyon-kun! Eh... You're talking with Shami? Eh? Really?" 

Without further answers, I lifted my sister by her waist, and dropped her outside the room. "Don't 
open the door! No matter what!" I shut the door after the harsh warning. 

"Mom~, Kyon-kun's brain has turned to noodles!" 

My sister could be heard walking down the stairs, saying a line which might turn out to be right. 
"So, Shamisen." 

I sat cross-legged, and started talking to the precious tri-colored cat sitting on the floor. 

"Okay, I told you before to stop talking no matter what. But now, never mind that. Rather, it 
would comfort me at this moment if you speak up. So, Shamisen. Say something. Whatever is 
fine. Philosophy, natural science, your choice. Even if it is difficult to understand. Please speak!" 

Shamisen looked up at me with a bored face. As if bored off its ass, Shamisen began to lick its 
fur. 

"...Do you understand what I said? Do you mean you cannot speak, but you can still listen and 
understand? Why not put out your right paw when it's a Yes, and your left paw when it's a No?" 

With my palm up, I poked my hand against its nose. Shamisen smelt my fingertips for a moment, 
but as expected, it returned to lick its fur, without saying anything or showing any understanding. 

Normal, I guess. 

This cat spoke only when we shot the film, and it was only for a short moment. At the same time 
we stopped shooting the film, this cat turned back to a normal cat. A normal cat that could be 
found anywhere, and could only be associated with verbs like eat, sleep and play. 

I know one thing. In this world, no cat can speak. 

"Isn't that normal?" 

Exhausted, I fell flat on my back, and stretched my arms and legs. Cats don't speak. So the 
strange time was when Shamisen had opened up to speak, not now. Or was it? 

I would just want to be a cat. Then I could quit thinking about anything, and live my life on basic 
instincts. 

I remained in such a position, until my sister came back telling me dinner was ready. 



Chapter 2 

Chapter 2 


The day of December 1 8 finally ended as if it were stuck in a bottle of glue, and the next day 
began. 

December 19. 

From today onwards we would be having shortened lessons. The lessons should originally have 
been shortened much earlier, but a while ago our school had been outrun by our rival public 
school in the aggregated results of the national mock exam. Our principal was spewing fire and 
instilled forceful changes with the theme of enhancing academic performance. Flistory does not 
change, after all. 

There was nothing but change around me, in North Fligh and around the SOS Brigade. As if 
caught up in a certain someone's arbitrary scheme, I went to school, only to find more absentees 
from Class 1-5. Taniguchi was nowhere to be found, probably finally reaching 40 degrees 
Celsius. 

And today Asakura was still sitting behind me instead of Haruhi. 

"Good morning. Are you awake today? Good, if that's the case." 

"We'll see." 

I put my bag on my table with a poker face. Asakura propped up her chin with her hands. 

"But just having your eyes open doesn't necessarily mean that you are awake. Having a firm grip 
of the situation with your eyes would be the first step to understanding. How are you doing? Are 
you grasping the situation well?" 

"Asakura." 

I leaned forward and shot a sparkling gaze at Asakura Ryouko's finely chiseled features. 

"Tell me once more: Do you really not remember or are you just playing dumb? Didn't you try to 
kill me before?" 


Asakura's face suddenly turned gloomy, with the exact same eyes one might use to look at a 
patient. 


"...Seems like you are still not awake. Here is my advice: Go see a doctor soon! Go before it is 
too late!" 

She shut her lips from then on, ignoring me as she struck up a conversation with a neighboring 
girl. 

I turned to face forward, crossed my arms, and stared straight into thin air. 


Let's put it this way. 

Let's say somewhere there is a very very unfortunate person. This person has been spectacularly 
unfortunate, whether viewed subjectively or objectively. This person is in nature the 
personification of misfortune, and even the elderly Prince Siddhartha who had mastered the 
deepest meaning of enlightenment would have turned his eyes away from this person. One day, 
he (this person may be a she, but I will just assume it is a he to skip the trouble) drifts into 
slumber while tormented by his usual misfortune, and the next day when he wakes up, the world 
has turned completely upside-down. It has become a world marvelous beyond words, 
indescribable even by the word "Utopia." In this world, his misfortune has completely been 
swept away, and his body and spirit are filled from head to toe with fortune in every aspect. No 
misfortune will fall onto his shoulders, and he must have been taken by somebody from hell to 
heaven in a single night. 

Of course, the person's own will does not play a role here. He is taken away by somebody he 
does not know, and that somebody's real identity is completely unknown. It is unknown why that 
somebody does this to the person. Probably only heaven knows. 

So, in this case, should the person be happy? By changing the world, the person's misfortune is 
completely gone. However, this world is a little different from his original world, and the biggest 
mystery remains as to what the reasoning is behind such changes. 

In this case, using the best evaluation criteria available, to whom should the person express his 
gratitude? 

With that said, this person is not me. The degree is way too different. 

Well... This analogy is bad for my case, I guess. I was not exactly reaching the bottom of 
misfortune all the time till yesterday, and presently I am not exactly the most fortunate among all 
people. 



However, disregarding the problem of extent, the analogy is close, if not exact in illustrating the 
point. My nerves had been practically rattled by the strange happenings around Haruhi all the 
time, and now such tales are apparently of no relevance to me. 

However— 

Here, there is no Haruhi, there is no Koizumi, Nagato and Asahina are normal humans, and the 
existence of the SOS Brigade has been completely erased. No aliens, no time travelers, no ESP. 
Above all, cats don't speak. It is just a normal, normal world. 

So how is that? 

Which world is more suited to me? Which world will delight me? The world that was, until now? 
Or the world now? 

Am I happy now? 


After school, my feet were auto-piloted towards the Literature Club Room out of habit. It is a 
typical reflex action — the body moves without the brain thinking when the action is repeated 
every day. It is the same as the sequence during bathing. There is no predetermined sequence of 
how to scrub the body in a bath, but from some time onwards the sequence is pieced up 
mechanically every single time. 

Every day when classes finish, I head towards the SOS Brigade, drink tea prepared by Asahina- 
san, and play games with Koizumi while listening to the delirious talks from Haruhi. It may be a 
bad habit, but I find it hard to kick, even if I am told to, exactly because it is a bad habit. 

Therefore today the ambiance is a little different. 

"What shall I do with this?" 

I stared at the blank application form as I was walking. Nagato gave this to me yesterday, 
probably implicitly encouraging me to join the Literature Club. But I don't understand; why did 
she invite me? Because the Literature Club has no other members and is to be disbanded? But it 
was courageous for her to recruit me, who literally appeared from nowhere and attacked her. 
Probably even in this wrong world, only Nagato never changes her somehow peculiar logic. 

"Agh!" 

When walking towards the club rooms block, I passed the Asahina-Tsuruya couple. Asahina-san 
literally recoiled upon seeing me and clung to Tsuruya-san, hiding behind her. Pained by the 
adorable senior's reaction upon seeing me, I briskly gave a light bow and trotted off. Oh please, 
let the common days come back, so I can enjoy my honeydew once more! 



I knocked this time and heard a faint response. Only then did I open the door. 

Nagato ran her eyes across my facial epidermis and returned them to the book in her hands. Her 
movement to push back her spectacles appeared to be her greeting. 

"Is it all right for me to come back?" 

Her small head nodded firmly. However, her eyes were more interested in the book spread in 
front of her, and she did not even lift her head. 

I put my bag over there and darted my eyes around for the next thing I should do. However, in 
this nondescript room, there weren't many small gadgets I could fiddle with. So without choice 
my eyes landed on the bookshelf. 

All of the shelves were jammed to the brim with books of all sizes. There were more hardcovers 
than paperbacks or novels, which was probably an indication of Nagato's preference for heavy 
reading. 

Silence. 

I should have already been accustomed to Nagato's silence, but today in this room it was quite 
painful. I would be on the edge of my seat if I did not say anything. 

"Are all of these books yours?" 

Immediately came the response. 

"Some were here before I came." 

Nagato showed me the cover of the hardcover she was holding. 

"This is borrowed. From the public library." 

On the book was a barcode sticker that showed it was the public library's property. Fluorescent 
light reflected off the laminated cover, and Nagato's spectacles shone for a second. 

End of conversation. Nagato returned to her silent reading challenge against the thick book, and I 
lost my place of belonging. 

The silence was unbearably choking. I searched for a random conversation thread and threw out 
random words. 

"Do you write your own essays?" 


After that was 3/4 of a beat of silence. 



I just read. 


Her eyes flitted for a fraction of a second onto the computer before hiding behind the lenses, but 
that did not escape my eyes. I see. That was why Nagato needed to do something before letting 
me use the computer. I developed an irresistible urge to read the story Nagato wrote. What would 
she have written? Probably sci-fi. It wouldn't be a love story, would it? 


It was hard to get into a conversation with Nagato in the first place. In this way, this Nagato was 
no different. 

I restarted my silent operations with the bookshelf. 

Somehow my eyes stopped on the spine of a book. 

It was a familiar title. The time when the SOS Brigade sprouted, Nagato lent me this first volume 
of a long foreign sci-fi series, a book with a scary amount of words. (ED note: Dan Simmons's 
Hyperion according to the anime) Now that I mention it, Nagato was still a spectacled girl then, 
and she pushed this book onto me without allowing any excuses. "Take this," she threw those 
words behind her and left briskly. It took me two weeks to read the whole thing. For me it 
seemed like years ago when this happened. Too many things had happened in the meantime. 

Strange nostalgic sentiments grew, and I took the hardcover from the bookshelf. I was not 
standing and reading in a bookstore, so I was not really putting any effort into reading. I 
randomly flipped over the pages and was about to put the book back in its original position when 
a small rectangular piece of paper dropped beside my feet. 

"Hmmm?" 

I picked it up. It was a bookmark with flowery drawings. It looked like one of those bookmarks 
that bookstores would throw in without asking — bookmark? 

It was as if the world began to spin around me. Ah... At that time... I opened this book in my 
bedroom... Found the same bookmark... Then I dashed off on my bike... I could recite the phrase 
from the back of my head. 

Seven o'clock tonight, waiting for you at the park outside the station. 

Holding my breath, I rotated my shaking hands — and I saw. 



"Program Run Condition: Collect the keys. Deadline: Two Days Later." 


The sentence, as if it were a message from some time ago, was written in computer-font-like neat 
characters on the bookmark that fell out from the hardcover. 

At once, I turned and hurried to the front of Nagato's table in three steps. Fixing my gaze on her 
widening black pupils, I asked, "Did you write this?" 

Staring at the back of the bookmark I held out for a while, Nagato cocked her head. In a puzzled 
expression she replied, "It is similar to my writing. However... I don't know. I do not remember 
writing that." 

"... I see. Just as I thought. Well, it's alright. I would be troubled if you knew. There is something 
bothering me, you know. Oh well, never mind my babbling..." 

Babbling lines of excuses from my mouth, I felt like my mind had flown somewhere else. 

Nagato. 

So this is a message from you all right. It is just a drab and dry line of characters, but I am glad. 
May I treat it like a present from the Nagato I have known for long? It's a hint how to break the 
current situation, right? Otherwise you would not write such a reminder-like comment? 

Program. Condition. Keys. Deadline. Two Days Later. 

...Two days later? 

Today was the 19th. Should I count two days later from this exact moment onwards? Or should I 
count from yesterday, when the whole world started to go crazy? Worse comes to worst, the 
deadline would be tomorrow the 20th. 

The one-shot surprise gradually cooled off like magma that oozed at a slow pace out of the 
earth's crust. I don 't know a thing, but it sounds like I have to gather some keys in order to boot 
some programs. But what are the keys? Where are they dropped off? How many of them are 
there? After collecting them all, where should I bring them in exchange for the souvenir? 

Question marks hovered in swarms above my head, and finally joined into one large question 
mark. 

If I start up this program, will the world return to normal? 



Hurriedly I took books in and out of the shelves starting from the far end, and checked if there 
were other bookmarks sandwiched within. Bearing Nagato's astounded gaze I kept on digging, 
but to no avail. There were no others. 

"Just this one, huh?" 

Well, if one gets too greedy for too much and grabs for every souvenir he can find, the weight 
would in the end bring him down, back to square one. Moving at random without a fixed goal is 
a mere waste of both time and HP. First thing's first; get the keys. The summit was still far away, 
but at least I managed to spot the pointer sign. 

After asking for permission, I unpacked my lunchbox and settled diagonally from Nagato. 
Munching my lunch, I also unpacked my mind of thoughts. Nagato seemed to direct her eyes 
from time to time in my direction, but I just operated my chopsticks mechanically, and 
concentrated on the urgent matter at hand — to continue feeding nutrients sedulously into my 
brain cells. 

As time ticked by, my lunchbox emptied. I was about to order some tea when I realized that 
Asahina-san was not with us. I was frustrated, but I continued thinking. This was the moment of 
truth. I could not let this hard-earned hint go to waste. Key. Key. Key. Key... 

For probably two hours, I was immersed in red-hot brainstorming. 

Filled gradually with disgust towards my own stupidity, I was overwhelmed by dejection. 

"I don't get it at all!" I cursed myself under my breath. 

The keys were too ambiguous to begin with. No way would it mean real keys for locking and 
unlocking, so my guess was that they were keys like keywords or key personnel. But the scope 
was still too large. Was it an item or a phrase? Was it mobile or immobile? I would certainly 
want to ask for further hints like these. I tried to picture what Nagato was thinking when she was 
writing on the bookmark, but I could only imagine her reading a difficult book, or giving an 
impressive but painfully long dictum — just the Nagato that I had known all along. 

With a sudden interest I turned my head in a diagonal direction, and there was the motionless 
Nagato, as if she was taking a snooze. Probably it was just me, but she was staying on the same 
page without progress. However, as counter-evidence that she was not taking an afternoon nap, 
her cheeks began to get a brush of red as she took notice of my absent-minded gaze. This Nagato 
the Literature Club member was either terribly shy in nature, or unaccustomed to others' 
attention. 

On the outside she looked exactly the same, but she kept reacting in an unfamiliar way that 
stimulated my interest. Deliberately, I fixed my eyes on her in observation. 



Though her eyes' focus was on the pages, it was clear she was not reading a single word. Nagato 
gasped silently with her lips slightly apart, and her chest's subtle heaving rhythm became 
gradually visible. The faint blush around her cheeks became redder by the minute. To tell the 
truth, this Nagato was quite — no, very cute. Though just for a moment, an idea flashed across 
my mind: It might not be such a bad idea to just join the Literature Club and enjoy the whole 
new world without Haruhi. 

But no. I would not throw in the towel just yet. I took out the bookmark from my pocket and 
gripped it without crushing it. Slipping this bookmark into this world meant that the Nagato who 
read with a triangular hat on still had some business with me. I had some business myself as 
well! I hadn't tried Haruhi's handmade dishes. I hadn't burnt Asahina Santa's image on my retina. 
My game with Koizumi was halted on my advantage as he was busy decorating the room. I 
would win in the end if we continued like that, so I would lose my rightful hundred yen 
otherwise. 


The setting sun shone through the window, and time had come for it to hide behind the campus 
block as a huge orange ball. 

I grew tired fixating on my seat, and nothing beneficial would come out of my brain no matter 
how much harder I wrung it. I stood up and reached for my bag. 

"Let's call it a day." 

"Okay." 

Nagato closed her hardcover which she might have been reading or not, stuffed it in her bag and 
stood up. Was she by any chance waiting for me to say it aloud? 

I grabbed my bag. She did not move an inch, as if she would forever stay still until I stepped out 
first. 

"Hey, Nagato?" 

"What?" 

"You live alone, don't you?" 

"...Yes." 


She was probably thinking, how on earth did he know that? 



I was about to ask whether she lived with her family, but stopped short when I saw her eyelashes 
cast down subtly. Memories of her room void of almost all furnishing came back to me. My first 
visit was seven months ago, and the cosmic telepathic talk on a scale that knew no bounds was in 
many ways plain scary. The second visit was Tanabata three years ago, and I was with Asahina- 
san. The second visit happened earlier on the timeline than the first visit, which is some 
accomplishment to me. 

"How about keeping a cat? Cats are great! They may look flaccid all the time, but sometimes I 
just wonder if they can understand what I am saying. I wouldn't be surprised if there are cats that 
can speak. I am not joking here." 

"Pets prohibited." 

After the response, she grew silent for some time, fluttering her eyes in sorrow. Like the sound of 
the wind from a soaring swallow, she took in a breath, and spoke in a brittle voice. 

"Want to come?" 

Nagato looked at my fingernails. 

"Where?" 

My fingernails asked back. 

"My home." 

A half-note rest of silence. 

"...Can I?" 

What on earth had happened? Was she shy, timid, or aggressive? This Nagato's psychological 
curve was just discontinuous! Or, is the mentality of an average high school girl nowadays just 
as irregular as the light curve period of Mira A? 

"Sure." 

Nagato stepped out, escaping from my sight. She turned off the room lights, opened the door and 
disappeared into the corridor. 

Of course, I followed. Nagato's room. Room 708 in a luxury apartment. I would just take a peek 
at the living room. I might find some new hints there. 


If I found another me sleeping there, I would wake him at once with my fist. 



On the way back from school, Nagato and I didn't talk at all. 


Nagato only walked straight ahead down the slope in silence, stepping as if some strong chilling 
wind was beating against her. Her hair was ruffled, blown about by sudden gusts of wind. 
Looking at the back of her head, I only continued to move my legs matter-of-factly. There were 
not many topics I felt right to talk about, and I sensed that I had better not ask why I was invited. 

After walking for some time, Nagato finally stopped her tracks in front of the luxury apartment. 
How many times had I visited here? I had visited Nagato's room twice, Asakura's room once, and 
the rooftop once. Punching the password into the entrance's keylock, Nagato unlocked the doors 
and stepped into the lobby without even looking back. 

She was even silent in the elevator. At the eighth room on the seventh floor she inserted the key 
into the door and opened it, but even then she only invited me in with a gesture. 

I walked in without a word. The room's arrangement was not different from my memory's 
impression. It was just one nondescript room. There was no other furnishing in the living room 
except a kotatsu. As usual, there were not even any curtains. 

And then there was the guest room. It should be the room separated by a slide door. 

"May I take a look in this room?" 

I asked Nagato, who went out of the kitchen with a Japanese tea set. Nagato blinked slowly. 

"Go ahead." 

"Sorry for intruding." 

The slide door slid open, as if there were bearings attached to it. 


There were only tatami mats inside. 

Well, I should have guessed. There was no way I could have traveled to the past so many times. 

I slid the door back to its original position, and showed my open hands to Nagato who was 
watching over me. The gesture must have meant nothing to her. However, without a word, 
Nagato put two tea cups on the kotatsu table, sat up straight with her legs tucked under her, and 
started to pour tea. 

I sat opposite to her with my legs crossed, the same position I sat in when I visited her for the 
first time. I had meaninglessly drunk several cups of tea prepared by Nagato, and then listened to 



that monologue about the universe. It had been a season of fresh greens and extreme heat, a 
completely different dimension from the current coldness. Even my heart was more chilled now. 

Drinking tea face-to-face in silence, Nagato's eyes drooped down behind her spectacles. 

For some reason Nagato was hesitating. Her mouth opened, but then shut. She looked up at me 
as if she had gathered her courage, but then looked down again. She repeated this a couple of 
times. Finally, she put her teacup aside and forced her voice out with great effort. 

"I met you before." 

As if in addition, 

"Outside school." 

Where? 

"Do you remember?" 

What? 

"Fibrary." 

Upon hearing this word, the gear at the back of my brain squeaked into action. The memory in 
the library with Nagato popped up. It was the inaugural first Search for the Mysterious. 

"This May," 

Nagato drooped her eyes, 

"You helped me make a library card." 

My psyche was electrocuted by a bolt, and failed to function. 

...Yes. Otherwise you would have been stuck in front of the bookshelves! Haruhi's summoning 
came like prank calls, and there was no other way to bring us back to the gathering point 
quickly... 

"You..." 

However, as Nagato continued to explain, I found her description of the situation different from 
my impression. Here was Nagato's explanation using her faint murmuring voice: 

Around mid-May Nagato visited the city library for the first time, but she did not know how to 
create a library card. It would have been good enough if she asked one of the librarians, but the 
few librarians were all busy. Moreover, as an introvert who was bad with words, Nagato could 



not bring up her courage to ask, so she started to wander around the counter in vain. Probably 
unable to stand watching her like that, a high school boy who passed by volunteered all the 
procedures in her place. 

"That was you." 

Nagato turned her face towards me, and our eyes met for half a second, before she dropped her 
eyes again on the kotatsu. 


The dot-dot-dot was shared between Nagato and me. Silence returned to the void of the living 
room, but I could not come up with any words. That was because I could not possibly answer her 
question whether I could remember. My memory and hers were subtly different. It was true that I 
created the library card for her, but I was not a passer-by; instead, I was the one who took her to 
the library in the first place. Giving up on the Search for the Mysterious patrol that was doomed 
to fail, we chose to go to the library to loiter away our time. Even if my ability to remember was 
as tiny as an infant sea anemone, I could never forget the image of the silent Nagato in uniform. 


Unsure of how to deal with my silence, Nagato twitched her lips with a tinge of sorrow, and 
made circles around the teacup rim with her slender finger. Watching the barely visible shaking 
of her finger, I was even more withdrawn from bringing up any topic, and the silence thickened. 

It would be simple to just answer that I remembered. It would not be a plain lie. There were just 
some gaps from the truth. In this case, these gaps became the biggest issues at hand. 

Why was there such a difference? 

The alien I had known had gone off to somewhere else, leaving behind only a bookmark. 


Ding-dong! 

The intercom bell broke the eternal silence. I nearly jumped in my sitting posture upon the 
sudden sound. Nagato's body was shocked with surprise, and turned towards the entrance. 

The bell rang again. A new visitor had arrived. However, who on earth would visit Nagato's 
room? I could not imagine a single person except a delivery man or a bill collector. 



Like a soul just detached from its body, Nagato stood up and slid towards the wall without even 
the sound of footsteps. She punched some keys into the intercom panel and listened to 
somebody's voice. Then she turned to me with a slightly troubled expression. 

Nagato spoke softly over the speaker, probably uttering rejections like "But..." and "Well..." 

"Wait." 

Apparently Nagato was overpowered. She hovered towards the entrance and unlocked the door. 
"Look at who is here?" 

The girl barged in with her shoulder against the door. 

"Why are you here? That's new — Nagato-san bringing in a guy." 

The girl in a North High uniform was holding a pot with both hands, and skillfully took off her 
shoes by pressing her toes against the door sill. 

"Don't tell me you forced yourself in!" 

Tell me first, why you are here in the first place? It is a surprising scene to see your face outside 
the classroom! 

"I am like a volunteer. It is a real surprise to see you here!" The beautiful face turned into a 
smile. 

She was the class representative that sat behind me. 

In other words, Asakura Ryouko had called in. 


"I probably made too much. It was so hot and heavy!" 

Smiling, Asakura put the large pot on the kotatsu. If one dropped by the convenience store in this 
season he would be greeted by this smell as well. There was oden in the pot. Was it made by 
Asakura? 

"Exactly. I share something like this, which does not take much time to prepare in large 
quantities, with Nagato-san from time to time. If you left her alone, she would just be 
malnourished." 

Nagato went into the kitchen to prepare plates and chopsticks. Some clanging of dishes could be 
heard. 



So? May I ask now why you are here? That interests me. 


I ran out of words. I was here because Nagato invited me, but I don't know why I got invited. 
Because of the story about the library? It would be just fine to talk about that in the club room. 
For me, I obediently came because I thought there might be some hints here as to what the 
"keys" were, but I could not just say that out loud. It would be bad to make her worry if I have 
mental problems. 

I made up a random lie. 

"Well... Sure. I went home along the same route with Nagato... Yeah, I am a little troubled 
whether I should join the Literature Club now. So I walked with her, asking for her opinions. We 
arrived at the apartment, but the discussion was still unfinished, so she invited me in. I was not 
forcing myself in." 

"You, in the Literature Club? Pardon me, but I cannot see the match anywhere. Do you even read 
books? Or do you want to write them?" 

"My trouble is whether I should be reading or writing from now on. That's all." 

The pot lid had been lifted, and an appetite-seducing aroma filled the whole room from the 
kotatsu. The boiled eggs that floated and sank in the sauce had turned a great color. 

Asakura-san, who sat up straight with legs folded at the left corner, threw suspicious glances at 
me. It might be just me, but the glances were so sharp, if they had weight, my temple would have 
lots of small holes. The Asakura before turned into a serial killer midway, but for this Asakura, 
one could discern the deep-rooted confidence behind her dignified posture. There was no doubt 
this oden would be far more delicious than any other on earth. That aura put pressure on me. At 
this moment, I was running out of confidence in many ways. I was just wandering back and 
forth, nothing else. 

Unable to take it anymore, I grabbed my bag and stood up. 

"Oh, so you are not eating with us?" 

Meeting Asakura's jeering tone with silence, I decided to retreat from the living room in stealthy 
footsteps. 

"Oh." 

I nearly bumped into Nagato who was coming out from the kitchen. In Nagato's hands was a 
stack of small plates, with chopsticks and a tube of ground mustard on top. 

"I am leaving. Sorry for intruding. See you." 

I was about to walk off, when I sensed a tug as soft as a feather on my arm. 



Nagato was pulling my sleeve with her fingers. The tug was very soft, just like how much force 
one might use to pick up a newborn baby hamster. 



Nagato was pulling my sleeve with her fingers. The tug was very soft, just like how much force one might 
use to pick up a newborn baby hamster. 

It was a faint expression. Nagato just looked down while touching my sleeve with only her 
fingers. Was it that she did not want me to leave? Was it that she felt suffocated being alone with 
Asakura? In any case I was fine with it, especially when I saw such a bitterly desperate Nagato. 

"...Just kidding! I'm gonna eat! Oh my, I am starving! If I do not have something in my stomach 
right now I couldn't even survive on my way home ! " 

Her fingers withdrew at last. I missed the scene somehow. Normally there was no way I could 
see Nagato expressing her ideas so apparently. This moment had value in its scarcity. 

Watching me hovering back to the living room, Asakura narrowed her eyes, as if she had 
understood it all. 


I focused wholly on stuffing oden into my mouth. My taste buds screamed from the delicious 
pleasure, but the bottom of my heart failed to recognize exactly what I was eating. Nagato's focus 
was on her every tiny chew, and she took almost three minutes just to chew and swallow her 



tangle (konbu). Among the three of us, only Asakura was talking cheerfully and I bounced back 
half-hearted answers at her from start to end. 

As if having a bivouac outside the Gate of Hell, the meal went on for more than an hour, and my 
shoulders had grown very stiff. 

Finally, Asakura stood up. 

"Nagato-san, please put the remaining portions in another container and put it in the freezer. I 
will come to get the pot tomorrow, so please keep the pot till then." 

I followed her. It was like being released from all bindings. Giving an ambiguous nod, Nagato 
drooped her eyes as she saw us off at the door. 

I confirmed that Asakura had left first before I whispered to Nagato. 

"See you. Can I visit the club room tomorrow too? I have nowhere else to go to after school." 
Nagato fixed her eyes on me, and... 

...Gave a faint but definite * smile*. 


I was literally dazzled. 


During the elevator's descent, Asakura chuckled. 

"Hey, do you like Nagato-san?" 

Well, it's not that I hate her. Choosing between Like or Hate, I would choose the former, but I 
have no reason to hate her in the first place. She is my savior. Yup. Asakura, it is Nagato Yuki 
who saved me from that murderous blade of yours, so how can I hate her? 

... I could not say the above. This Asakura was not that Asakura, and the same went for Nagato. 
In this world I seemed to be the only one that had a different perspective on things, and 
everybody else had turned normal. There was no SOS Brigade at all. 


How did this beautiful classmate of mine interpret my silence to her question? She just laughed 
through her nose. 



"No way, I see. I've been reading too much, I guess. Your favorite type would be much more on 
the weird side, and Nagato-san just doesn't fit the profile." 

"How do you know my favorite type?" 

"I just happened to hear that from Kunikida-san. You were in the same class in junior high, 
right?" 

That bastard, nosing around with such crap. That was just Kunikida's misconception. Please 
ignore. 

"But you! If you want to date Nagato-san, you'd better be serious about it. Otherwise, I will 
never forgive you! Nagato-san might look otherwise, but she is emotionally fragile inside." 

Why is Asakura paying so much attention to Nagato? In my original world, Asakura was 
Nagato's backup — that I would understand. Well, in the end she ran berserk and was deleted 
though. 

"It is a friendship fostered by living in the same apartment block. Somehow I just cannot leave 
her alone. Looking at her from afar, I sense her in danger. And somewhere within me grew the 
desire to protect her, see?" 

I might have gotten her meaning, or I might not have. 

The conversation ended there, and Asakura left the lift on the fifth floor. Room 505, 1 remember. 
"See you tomorrow." 

Asakura's smiling face was shut away behind the closing doors. 

I stepped out of the apartment block, and the dark atmosphere outside was as chilling as a fresh 
food freezer. The north wind snatched from my body something else along with my body heat. 

I thought about greeting the old caretaker, but then decided not to. The caretaker station's glass 
windows were firmly shut, and it was dark inside. He was probably asleep. 

I would just like to return to bed as soon as possible. Even a dream would be fine with me. That 
girl could just as easily get into others' dreams subconsciously. 

"You are just trouble whether you are here or not, so just get the hell out here in such a critical 
moment! Can't you just listen to my wish for once...?" 

I whispered to the starry sky, and suddenly recognized with a shock what I had been thinking 
about. I would like to hit myself hard on the head for daring to think such sinister ideas. 


What on earth... 



The murmur from my mouth turned to white breath and dispersed into thin air. 


I wanted to see Haruhi. 


Chapter 3 

Chapter 3 


December 20th. 

It was the morning of the third day since the world had changed as I awoke from my dreamless 
slumber. As usual, I got out of bed, feeling as though my stomach had been stuffed with a few 
dozen .300mm bullets. Shamisen, who was sleeping on the blanket, rolled off suddenly onto the 
ground and laid flat. I stepped softly on his tummy and sighed. 

Sticking her head through the door, my sister looked dismayed when she saw that I had awoken. 
"So, did Shami talk?" 

She had been asking me this ever since the night before last. My answer was always the same. 


"No~pe." 


As I reminisced about the soft touch of the cat's fur on my toes, my sister had begun humming 
her little song as she carried Shamisen out of the room. It's great being a cat, all they ever do is 
eat, sleep and lick fur. How I wanted to trade places with him for a day. Who knows, as a cat, I 
might even find what I was looking for in no time. 

That's right, I still hadn't found the key. Nor had I found out what this key meant. Not to mention 
the system activation program. If I didn't do something today, the world would continue to 
remain this way, and it might even become more terrifying. As for the time limit - whose idea 
was it to have such a limit anyway? Was it already a pain for Nagato to provide a limited time 
offer? 


I headed to school without making any progress. The gloomy skies looked as though it was about 
to snow as it loomed above everyone's heads. Seemed like we'd be getting a white Christmas this 
year; snow fall could be heavy. There hadn't been much forecast on the amount of snow, but 
judging by the frostiness of this year's winter, it'd probably be big. Haruhi would probably be 
more excited than a puppy dog as she prepares for the winter field trip... That is, if Haruhi still 
exists. 

There was nothing worth my attention as I climbed up the slope as usual towards North High and 
finally arrived at the 1-5 classroom. My exhaustion manifested physically as I walked slowly, so 
I only managed to sit down on my desk just in time for the first school bell to ring. Like 
yesterday, there were a lot of sick absentees in class, but what was amazing was that Taniguchi 
only needed to rest for one day. Though he was still wearing his mask, he came nevertheless. It 
was only now that I realized that this guy loved going to school. 

By the way, today Asakura, who sat behind me, gave me a rather intriguing smile. 

"Good morning." 

Asakura greeted me simply like she did everyone else. I merely nodded back. 

As the second bell signalled the beginning of classes, Okabe-sensei entered energetically and 
began the home room session in earnest. 


I'd lost track of what day of the week it was already. Today's timetable seemed different from 
what I remembered, though I wasn't sure. I wasn't even sure whether I was having the same 
subjects on this day last week. Even if yesterday's and today's timetables were to be swapped, I'm 
afraid I would barely notice. Was it just I that had become weird? The girl known as Suzumiya 
Haruhi never existed, Asakura was the most popular classmate, Asahina-san was the unreachable 
senpai, while Nagato was the sole member of the Literature Club. 

Just which was the real thing? Was the SOS Brigade and everything I'd been through all a part of 
my imagination? 

Damn, my thoughts are becoming more and more negative. 

During PE in the first session, I was the absent-minded goalkeeper who was not interested in 
defending his goal; the next session was math, everything just went in my left ear and out of my 
right; without even realizing, recess had arrived. 

As I slumped onto my desk to cool my head down... 


Yo, Kyon, 



It was Taniguchi. He hung his mask beneath his chin and gave his usual idiotic grin. 


"The next session's chemistry, today the teacher's gonna pick my row to answer questions, help 
me out." 

Help you out? Are you nuts?! You do realize we both know each others' strengths and 
weaknesses inside out already, don't you? How am I supposed to know something that you 
wouldn't know? 

"Hey, Kunikida," 

I called my other partner, who had just returned from the bathroom, 

"Tell Taniguchi everything you know about sodium hydroxides. He especially wants to know 
whether they're on good terms with hydrochloric acids." 

"Well that's simple, they get neutralized after being mixed together," 

Kunikida said as he flicked through Taniguchi's textbook, 

"Ah, so it's this question. First calculate in moles and you'll be able to convert it to kilograms. 
Let me think..." 

Seeing a knowledgeable person explaining so casually, one feels extremely helpless. 

Taniguchi nodded his head non-stop, yet as Kunikida thought further, he didn't intend to 
calculate on his own anymore. He grabbed my mechanical pencil from my desk and scribbled a 
few numbers and symbols on the blank spaces on Taniguchi's textbook. 

After it was all settled, Taniguchi gave me a weird smile, 

"Kyon, Kunikida told me everything during the soccer match in PE, you seemed to be up to 
something the day before yesterday." 

Weren't you at school as well that day? 

"I had to take a nap in the clinic during lunch, and I was feeling drowsy that whole afternoon. I 
only heard about it this morning. I hear you were in a state of frenzy, did you really say Asakura 
wasn't supposed to exist?" 

"More or less." 

I held my hand up and made a sign that read, "You can get lost now!" Yet Taniguchi smirked 
and continued, 

"How I wished I was there as well. It's pretty rare to see you yelling around hilariously." 



Kunikida seemed to remember something from then and said, 


"Kyon's better today. That day it seems as though he had wanted to pick on Asakura-san. Did she 
do something to upset you?" 

Even if I said it I'd be treated as a lunatic. So it was pretty natural for me to keep quiet. 

"Oh yeah, you said then that someone had been replaced by Asakura. Did you find that person? 
Her name's Haruhi, right? Just who is she?" 

Would you please stop reminding me about this stuff? Right now I would shiver involuntarily 
every time that name is mentioned, even if it's being uttered repeatedly by a parrot. 

"Haruhi?" 

You see? Even Taniguchi has bent his head. Not only that, he even said, 


"That Haruhi, you don't mean Suzumiya Haruhi, do you?" 


Yes, that Suzumiya Haruhi 

The bones in my neck made a creaking noise. I slowly turned my head up to look at the silly look 
my classmate was giving me, 

"Taniguchi, what did you just say?" 

"I said Suzumiya, the Savage Girl of East Junior High. I've been in the same class as her for three 

years. Wonder how she's doing And how come you know who she is? You said she was 

replaced by Asakura, just what was that all about?" 

My eyes went white in an instant 

"YOU! YOU SMOOTH-HEADED IDIOT!" 

I yelled and leaped up at once. Perhaps intimidated by my sudden outburst, both Taniguchi and 
Kunikida instinctively backed up a bit. 

"Who you calling 'smooth-headed!?' If I'm 'smooth-headed,' then you're 'barren-headed!' Besides, 
my family has been silver-haired for generations, you should be the one more worried about your 
hairline ! " 



That's none of your business! I grabbed Taniguchi by his collar and pulled him towards my face 
until both our noses nearly touched each other. 

"You said you know Haruhi!?" 

"How can I not know her? I couldn't forget her even after fifty years. If there's anyone from East 
Junior High that doesn't know her, they need a check-up to see if they're suffering from 
amnesia." 

"Where?" 

As though chanting a mantra, I fired question after question, 

"Where's that girl? Where is Haruhi right now? Tell me where!" 

"What's with you? Are you a taiko drum? Did you see Suzumiya somewhere and fell in love with 
her at first sight? Give it up! I'm only saying this for your own good. While her looks are the 
stuff of a guy's dreams, her attitude is enough to shatter those dreams to oblivion. For example, 
she " 

Drew mysterious geometric shapes in the school's track field with white chalk, right? I knew that 
already. I'm not interested in her past criminal record, I just want to know where the hell Haruhi 
is right now! 

"She's at Kouyouen School," 

Taniguchi replied as though reciting the atomic sequence of hydrogen, 

"If I'm not mistaken, she's enrolled in the high school at the bottom of the hill, just in front of the 
station. She's already a bright person, so it's only natural that she would study in such an elite 
high school." 

Elite school? 

"Is Kouyouen really that good? I thought they were a girl's school for the rich and famous." 
Taniguchi looked at me with pitiable eyes and said, 

"Kyon, I don't know what they told you in junior high, but that school's always been co-ed. Not 
to mention it's one of the top schools in university entrance rate in this prefecture. To have such a 
school in our district really pisses me off!" 

As I listened to Taniguchi's mumblings, I slowly loosened my hands. 


Why did I not realize this before? I should commit seppuku for this. 



Just because Haruhi wasn't at North High, I assumed that she didn't exist in this world. As you 
can see, my imagination was worse than that of a giant cave cricket. When I return to my 
relatives' place in the countryside next summer, I should go and have a chat with one of its 
relatives sitting by the balcony, we'll probably get along very well. 

"Hey! Get a hold of yourself!" Taniguchi tidied his collar and said, "Kunikida, you're right. He is 
nuts, and his condition seems to have worsened." 

Say whatever you like, I'm not in the mood to argue with you right now, because right now there 
was someone who was pissing me off more than the backstabbing Taniguchi and the ever- 
nodding Kunikida. 

This series of unfortunate events was truly unbelievable. If someone from East Junior High was 
sitting nearby that day, or if Taniguchi was in the classroom then, then I would have heard 
Haruhi's name loud and clear much earlier. Just whose damn fault is it? Come on out so I can 
beat the crap out of that bastard! This score can be settled another day, though. Everything that 
needs answers has been asked, all that's left is to take action. 

"Where're you going, Kyon? The bathroom?" 

I turned around while rushing towards the classroom door and said, 

"I'm taking leave early." 

As early as possible, 

"What about your bag?" 

That'll just get in the way, 

"Kunikida, if Okabe asks, tell him I've got bubonic plague with dysentery, or flu, or something 
like that and it hurts like hell. Oh and Taniguchi!" 

I gave my sincere gratitude to my wide -jawed classmate, who was seeing me off, 

"Thanks!" 

"Huh? Wha ?" 

I last saw Taniguchi spinning his finger by his head in circles, I then bolted out of the classroom, 
and within a minute I was out of the school gates. 



It was really difficult to run down a slope at a high speed. Because I was too excited, I ran with 
all my strength, after about ten minutes, even my legs and lungs were beginning to complain that 
I was pushing them too hard, let alone my heart. Come to think of it, I could have still made it if 
I waited for the third session to finish. At this time of year, Kouyouen was probably having a half 
school-day as well. It would have been fine as long as I arrived there before their last school bell 
rang. Even if I were to walk from North High, it would still take me less than half an hour. 

By the time I realized how poor my time management skills was, I had already arrived at the 
private school by the station, the finishing point of my compulsory daily climbing route to 
school. It was very quiet inside the school, were they still having classes? I took a look at my 
watch, the lessons were about the same time as our school, they're probably in the third session 
right now. In other words, before the school gates open, I have one whole hour of free time. 

Being empty handed under this cold weather, all I could do was wait. 

"Maybe I should forcefully barge in " 

If it were Haruhi, she would do exactly that, and she would have handled it beautifully. Sadly I 
don't have that confidence, after walking slowly towards the gate, I frantically turned around 
once again. Standing outside the closed school gates was a stem-faced guard. As expected from a 
rich private school. 

Actually, I could also infiltrate the school by climbing the fence, the problem was that the top of 
the fence stood at quite a distance from the ground, and there was barbed wire at the top to boot, 
it seems to be a better choice to wait for the school gates to open. If I were to forcefully go in, 
it'd be all over if I were to get caught. I've already come this far, I have no intention of letting the 
game end so easily. After all, unlike Haruhi, I can still control myself when it was necessary. 


And so, I waited for nearly two hours. 

The school bell that rang for the last time sounded like a distant memory, and the opened gates 
poured with students coming out like a released flood. 

Taniguchi was correct, this was indeed a co-ed school. The girls' uniform were the same as usual, 
the typical black suited schoolgirl uniform. Walking amongst them were the guys on their way 
home, and they were dressed in the traditional gakuran uniform. This was exactly the opposite to 
North High, with the girls in sailor uniform and the guys in suits. As for the gender ratio, there 
seems to be more girls 

"How can this be Forget it." 


There were a few familiar faces among the male students, they were the students from Class 1-9. 
And I had thought they'd all disappeared, turns out they were here in this high school all along. I 



don't know whether it's coincidence or what, but I've yet to see anyone from my junior high. 
Those that I've seen before didn't take much notice of me, and walked quickly past me after 
taking a quick suspicious look at me. Right now, they probably have a whole new set of 
memories, most likely a happier school memory, because at least they don't have to climb up the 
hill to school every day. 

I continued to wait, and the chances of me hitting the jackpot were 50/50. If that girl had joined 
some club activity, or was busy planning something and had to stay in school, then I've basically 
become a scarecrow here. Please, just hurry up and be on your way home, and then appear before 
me. 

What if there is an SOS Brigade in this Kouyouen School, with members other than myself 
taking part in all sorts of activities 

When I thought of this, my innards begun to tumble like mad. Wouldn't that make Asahina-san, 
Nagato, Koizumi, and me disposable trash? If that were the case, I'm even worse than a side- 
character, and would become a complete outsider. That's not what I want! I'll pray to just about 
anyone! Be it Jesus, Mohammad, Buddha, Mani, Zoroaster, or even Lovecraft! If any of them 
can ease my discomfort, I'll believe in any prophecy or legend that they preach. Even if it's by 
those doomsday cult preachers, I'll gladly follow them. Now I finally understand how it feels to 
be a person who would cling onto any piece of straw and still hopelessly sink down in a mud 
swamp. 

After being consumed by anxiety and depression for about ten minutes, 

" Phew," 

I sighed deeply, not even I knew the meaning behind this sigh. Why was I making such a huge 
sigh of relief? 


Because she had appeared. 


Buried amongst a sea of suits and gakuran uniforms was a face I would never forget even until 
the moment I die. 

Just like when she first introduced herself in the first day of school and clotted up the air inside 
the classroom, she had long hair which reached her waist. I looked stunned for some time, and 
then I began to count my fingers to figure out what day of the week it was. Today wasn't the day 
for her to let her hair down, looks like this Haruhi wasn't interested in toying around with her 
hair. 



As though unhappy that I was in the way, the students of Kouyouen School walked past by my 
left and right side. I had no idea what they thought of this guy standing like an idiot in front of 
their school gate, but they can think whatever they want, and I don't have time to worry about 
what they think either. 

I stood still and fixed my gaze upon the girl in her suit uniform that was slowly approaching. 
Suzumiya Haruhi. 

I've finally found you. 



£3 

I stood still and fixed my gaze upon the girl in her suit uniform that was slowly approaching. 

I involuntarily smiled, this was because it wasn't just Haruhi that I've found. 

Walking beside Haruhi and chatting with her was a guy in a gakuran uniform. Carrying a smile 
that I can never stand watching was none other than Koizumi Itsuki. Now that's a surprise 
addition. 

So these two have now gotten so close that they're now going home together after school. Yet 
Haruhi doesn't seem to be quite happy, her expression has remained as when I first saw her at the 
beginning of the school term. She would occasionally give a quick reply, and then turned her 
gaze back to the tarmac with a scowl on her face. 


It's the girl from before. Before she even thought of creating the SOS Brigade, everywhere she 
went in school, she carried the expression of a martial arts master who was desperate to find a 




worthy opponent in order to showcase her abilities. That expression brought a sense of nostalgia 
for me. That was the Haruhi who was bored with the mediocrity of everyday life, and working 
hard to find some excitement, yet never realizing she could manifest anything she desires. 

Anyway, there can always be time for reminiscences, but not now. The two of them did not seem 
to notice me as they slowly approached me. 

As hopeless as it may sound, already I could not stop my heart from beating quickly. If I were to 
see a doctor now, the two-beat rhythm coming from within would be so loud that he would have 
to take his stethoscope off. The weather was freezing and yet I was sweating. I only hope that my 
trembling legs are just a part of my imagination, I was sure I'm not that cowardly. 

They're here. Haruhi and Koizumi have now arrived before me. 

"Hey!" 

It took me a lot of effort just to get my voice out. 

Haruhi lifted her head and exchanged glances with me. 

Her black stocking-filled legs then stopped walking. 

"What is it?" 

Her gaze was as cold as a freezer's. She scanned my whole body with that gaze before moving 
her eyes off, 

"What do you want with me? No, I should rather ask, who are you? I'm not the sort of character 
to let anyone say 'Hey!' to me. If you want to flirt, go somewhere else, I don't have any interest in 
such activities." 

As I was already mentally prepared, that didn't come as too much of a shock. As expected, this 
Haruhi didn't know me. 

Koizumi stopped as well and looked at me with a cold stare. From his expression, I don't think 
he's even seeing me, let alone knowing who I am. 

I turned and spoke to that Koizumi, 

"Is this the first time we have met?" 

Koizumi shrugged his shoulders lightly and said, 

"I believe so. May I ask who you are?" 


Are you a transfer student in this school? 



I was transferred here this spring How did you know I'm a transfer student? 


"Do you know anything about a group that calls itself the 'Organization?'" 

"'Organization?' What are you implying?" 

His inoffensive smile was the trademark smile that I was fa mi liar with. But the look on his eyes 
betrayed a sense of alert. Just like Asahina-san, this guy doesn't know me. 

"Haruhi," 

Haruhi's face twitched and glared at me with her large black eyes, 

"Who gave you permission to call me by my name? Just who on earth are you? I don't remember 
asking for the company of perverts or stalkers. Get lost already, you're in the way." 

"Suzumiya," 

"You're not allowed to call me by my surname either. How did you know my name anyway? Are 
you from East Junior High? You must be from North High, I can tell from that uniform. Just 
what is a North High student doing here?" 

Haruhi snorted and then turned around, 

"Ignore him, Koizumi-kun. Just pretend he never existed. There's no need to waste time on this 
impolite fellow, he's just an idiot anyway. Let's go!" 

Why was Haruhi going home with Koizumi after school? Could it be that Koizumi has taken 
over my role in this world? Though that thought had crossed my mind for a while, but I wasn't 
frantically thinking of that then. 

"Wait!" 

I grabbed hold of Haruhi's shoulder as she turned to avoid me, 

"Let me go!" 

Haruhi turned her arm and swung my hand off. Her face was now full of anger, but that level of 
fierceness wasn't enough for me to let her go now, or else all those hours standing here would be 
meaningless. 

"You sure are annoying!" 

Haruhi bent down and elegantly gave a low kick. 



A pain emanated from my ankle, it was so painful that I felt like I was about to suffocate, though 
not enough for me to crawl around on the ground. After finding my balance, I said 
disconsolately, 

"Just tell me one thing," 

I took out my last ounce of courage. If this doesn't work, then I'm out of ideas. This was my last 
hope - 1 then threw out this question, 

"Do you remember the Tanabata festival three years ago?" 

Just as she was about to leave, Haruhi stopped once again. Looking at that long dark hair of hers, 
I continued, 

"On that day, you sneaked into your school and drew shapes on the school field with white 
chalk." 

"So what about it?" 

Haruhi turned with a furious look on her face, 

"Everyone knows about that already! Why are you mentioning this for?" 

I chose my words carefully, trying to finish it as quickly as possible, 

"You weren't alone in sneaking into school that night. You were with another guy who carried 

Asahina A little girl. It was with him that you drew the patterns using white chalk. The 

patterns were a message for Hikoboshi and Orihime, which roughly meant 'I am here '" 

I wasn't able to complete my sentence. 

Haruhi grabbed my collar with her right hand and pulled me over. Being dragged by a terrifying 
force, I involuntarily fell forward, and knocked my forehead into Haruhi's head, which was hard 
as a rock. 

"Ouch!" 

I looked at her in protest, and her eyes also looked back with ferociousness. Her piercing gaze 
now shot right into my vision. That was a nostalgic gaze, Haruhi's exasperated face was just as 
nostalgic as well. 

The girl looked at me with a perplexed face, her veins were close to bursting as she asked, 

"How did you know that!? Who told you!? No, I never told anyone. That time " 


Haruhi suddenly stopped, her expression then changed dramatically as she saw my uniform, 



North High Could it be !? What's your name? 


I was having difficulty breathing as my tie was being grabbed tightly by her. Such a savage girl. 
No, now's not the time to indulge in memories of Haruhi's amazing power. My name? Should I 
tell her my real name, which she has never heard of, or should I tell her that stupid nickname that 
everyone has gotten used to calling me? 

No matter which one it was, it would have no effect on this girl before me. I don't think she has 
ever heard of those two names. In that case, there could only be one name that I can use, 

"John Smith," 

Though I tried to say it calmly, it's difficult when I'm being lifted up by the neck. Can't you see 

I'm having difficulty breathing Just when I was thinking of that, the strong pressure before 

my chest was lifted at once. 

" John Smith?" 

Haruhi released my collar and looked stunned as her hands stayed there in mid-air. I've rarely 
seen her like that. Suzumiya Haruhi looked as though her soul has been taken by the grim reaper, 
as her mouth was wide open. 

"So it's you You're that John Smith? The strange high school student Who helped me 

In East Junior High " 

Haruhi suddenly tripped. Her long dark hair covered her eyes, and just as she was about to fall, 
Koizumi grabbed hold of her on time. 

The link has now been connected. 


What do mean 'helped you! ?' You practically had me do everything But I wasn't going to 

waste my time arguing with her. That's it, I've finally found some clue ! In this completely altered 
world, there was one person, and the only person, who shared the same memory as I did. 

So it is you. 

That person was none other than Suzumiya Haruhi. 

If this Haruhi has seen me three years ago in Tanabata, then this world three years on could be 
traced back to that point in time. Not everything "disappears without a trace." When I traveled 
back to three years ago with Asahina-san, and returned to the present with the help of Nagato's 



power, that part of history did indeed exist. I don't know what went wrong in the process, but at 
least three years ago, this world was the same world as the one I had known. 


Just what went wrong? Why was I the only one with the original memories? 

I guess I'll think about this later on. 

I looked at Haruhi, whose jaw was widened as though she had seen one of the wonders of the 
world, and said to her, 

"I'll explain everything. Do you have time? Because it's a long story " 


As the three of us walked shoulder to shoulder, Haruhi spoke, 

"I've seen John Smith twice. Not long after that, as I was on my way home, I heard someone 

shout behind me, what did he say Ah, yes! Something like, 'Please take good care of the John 

Smith who would shake the world!' What does that mean anyway?" 

I've never said such a thing. After making sure Haruhi was out of sight from the track field, I 
went and woke up Asahina-san and rushed towards Nagato's apartment. Could there be another 
John Smith? But just what the hell was that John Smith talking about? 

It sounded as though he was trying to give some hint to Haruhi. 

"Was that John the same John you saw in East Junior High?" 

"He was too far, plus it was dark at the time. I can't remember either of their faces very well. But 
his voice sounded like yours, and he was wearing North High's uniform." 

Things seem to be getting more and more complicated. Just when I thought I had things linked 
up, the details didn't fit. 

We looked for a coffee shop nearby and went inside. I had wanted to go to the usual coffee shop 
the SOS Brigade used for their meetings, since it was a reunion of the SOS Brigade members 
after all. Though it was a bit far from where we were. 

"This other you that I knew studied in North High, and on the first day of school, she said the 
following " 

Before our orders even arrived, I began my story right away. Before the cafe au lait cooled down 
to the point that you could drink it all in one gulp, I had told her the compressed version of 
everything that has happened so far, without holding back. Things like an alien, a time traveler 



and an esper coming together in the SOS Brigade and our club room being the Literature Club's 
room. 

I especially told her in detail about my time traveling adventure during Tanabata, as I thought 
that was the most important part. 

I gave Haruhi a general picture about how she was potentially a god, a time distortion, and an 
evolutionary possibility, as neither of these theories were confirmed. I only told her that she had 
an incredible power hidden within, and how this unknown power could even change the world. 

Just these was enough to make this girl very interested. She constantly went into deep thought, 
and then finally said, 

"How come you could read the alien language that I thought up? It is true that those symbols 
meant 'I am here, come look for me.'" 

"Someone translated that for me," 

"You mean that alien?" 

"To be precise, a Living Humanoid Interface created by the aliens in order to interact with 
humans; I remember that's how she puts it." 

I told them everything about Nagato Yuki. At first glance she seemed like an extra gift from the 
Literature Club to the brigade, but she's actually only set up as an expressionless quiet 
bookworm. I then told them about Asahina-san. The serial-cosplaying mascot, as well as our 
public relations officer and the brigade's exclusive tea-lady was actually a time traveler from the 
future. It was her that I traveled back with to the Tanabata three years ago, and it was thanks to 
Nagato that we managed to return. 

"So that means that John would be you, right? Then I'll believe you, since nothing bad would 
come from that. So you were engaged in time travel then " 

Haruhi looked at me with eyes used to examine a time traveler and nodded her head. 

Aren't you being a bit too trusting? I never knew you would believe someone so easily. That time 
when it was just the two of us looking around town for mysterious stuff, you treated my story 
like trash when I told you in that coffee shop. 

"That other me is an idiot, but I believe you," 

Haruhi leaned forward and added, 


Because believing is more fun! 



I was familiar with this very bright smile which was like a hundred flowers blossoming. This 
was the smile Haruhi had when I saw her smile for the first time. It was the million watt smile 
she had when she suddenly thought about setting up the SOS Brigade during English class. 

"Since that day, I went and investigated everyone from North High. I even infiltrated there for 
some time, but I never did see anyone who resembled John. I was angry with myself then for not 
remembering his face properly. But now it makes sense, since you hadn't even been enrolled at 
North High three years ago " 

There were two versions of myself back then, one was me living as a carefree junior high 
schooler, the other one was me being frozen in time with Asahina-san inside Nagato's guest 
room. 

I might as well bring in the ordeals of this wonder kid here, 

"In that world Koizumi is an esper. You've helped me a great deal, but you've also given me a lot 
of trouble," 

"If that's true, then that's pretty incredible," 

Drinking his tea elegantly, Koizumi said with a half-suspicious glance. 

I turned once again towards Haruhi, 

"Why didn't you come to North High?" 

"No particular reason, really. I was only interested in North High because of that incident in 
Tanabata. But by the time I entered high school, John would have graduated already, not to 
mention I wasn't able to find him before. Besides, Kouyouen has a higher university entrance 
rate, and my home-room teacher at junior high kept nagging me to enroll there, so I simply 
followed along just to shut him up. Actually it doesn't really matter which high school I go to, 
really." 

I decided to ask Koizumi as well, 

"What about you? Why were you transferred here?" 

"You ask me why, well, my answer's pretty much the same as Suzumiya-san's. I simply went to 
where my academic abilities led me. Besides, now I'm not saying North High's in any way bad, 
but Kouyouen was just so much better in terms of campus facilities." 

True enough, North High doesn't even have air conditioning. 

Haruhi sighed and said, 


The SOS Brigade, huh? Sounds like fun, 



All thanks to you. 


"If what you said were true," 

Cutting in was Koizumi, he had now toned down his grinning smile and said with an amused 
look, 

"Judging from your story, there exist two possibilities," 

Now that really sounds like something Koizumi would say. 

"The first would be that you have entered a parallel universe, in which you have arrived from 
your world to this world; the second would be that the whole world has been changed except for 
yourself. " 

I've thought about that as well. 

"Yet, no matter which one it is, there are still questions to be answered. If it's the former, then 
where did your counterpart in this world go to? If it's the latter, it's puzzling as to why you are 
the only one who remained unchanged. Unless you happen to possess some incredible power, 
then that would explain a lot." 

I don't, and this I can guarantee. 

Koizumi made his annoying trademark gesture by shrugging his shoulders gracefully and 
continued, 

"If you have entered a parallel universe, then you must find a way to return to the world from 
whence you came from. If it's the world being completely altered, then you must find a way to 
restore the world to its original form. No matter which possibility it is, in order to resolve this, 
you have to find the culprit behind all this, since it's possible that the culprit would know how to 
return things to normal." 

Who else could it be besides Haruhi? 

"Who knows? Maybe it's some invader from an alternate universe using Earth as a gaming 
platform. There might even be some evil mastermind that would appear in the future." 

I could tell at once that he was making up all of this as he went along, since it was obvious from 
his tone that Koizumi was bullshitting. Yet Haruhi didn't notice this at all, and her eyes even 
glimmered as she said, 

"I'd sure like to meet this Nagato-san and Asahina-san. Oh yeah, I'd also want to have a look at 
that club room. If it was really me that has changed the world, then maybe we would remember 
something if we were to meet. Don't you think so too, John?" 



Yeah, that's right. I had no reason to object. If this girl really was behind all this - or at least that's 
what I think anyway - then maybe it could trigger something within her, and even Nagato and 
Asahina-san would be able to remember me. Once the alien and time traveler had returned to 
normal, then everything else can be resolved easily. Hang on, did she just call me John? 

"You said you're called Kyon, right? John sounds better, since it feels more like a person's name, 
not to mention it's a very common Western name. Just who gave you that Kyon nickname? It 
doesn't sound as though people respect you at all." 

It was my aunt who gave me that nickname, while my sister was responsible for spreading it far 
and wide. Despite this, I felt very satisfied at this Suzumiya complaining about it. I wonder why, 
as it wasn't that long ago since I last heard that nickname. 

"Then, let's go." 

I might as well try asking, 

"Now? Where to?" 

Haruhi had already stood up and yelled boastfully at me, 

"To North High, of course!" 

In a blink of an eye, Haruhi, who couldn't even stand waiting for the automatic door to open, had 
already rushed out of the coffee shop. 

That was so Haruhi of her to do that, I was very relieved to see that. 

Haruhi, you sure are something. Once you think of something, you'll always get into action in 
less than two seconds. That's definitely you. Every time you kick the club room door open with a 
bullish attitude, we would know that you would have some amazing idea to announce. Nagato 
seemed to be the only one who would remain calm 

"Oh shit!" 

I looked at my watch. It was way past school time. I had completely forgotten about the promise 
I made while I was at Nagato's apartment yesterday. I said I would go to the clubroom the next 
day, and yet I was late. An image floated in my head of Nagato looking depressed as she 
desperately waited for someone to knock on the door. Please wait a little longer. I'll be on my 
way. 

Koizumi picked up the bill that Haruhi left behind and said, 

"So am I just paying for Suzumiya-san only?" 


If you're paying for me as well, I'll tell you even more. 



Then, I'm all ears, 


I simply threw back everything that this esper boy has ever told me. Things like the anthropic 
principle, or how Haruhi is a God, as well as how he went to great lengths to stage a murder 
mystery on a lone island in order to keep Haruhi entertained. 

Seeing Koizumi going into deep thought, I asked him, 

"Could Haruhi be the culprit or is it someone else altogether? Which do you think is correct?" 

"If the Suzumiya-san that you mention really does possess omnipotent powers, then it's possible 
that it could be her doing," 

Well, I couldn't think of any other person. But then, if that's really the case, this means Haruhi 
has kept Koizumi by her side while casting Nagato, Asahina-san and me aside. I don't want to 
sound like I'm complaining, but I just don't believe Haruhi's more obsessed with Koizumi than 
any one of us. Was this part of Haruhi's unconscious powers at work as well? 

"Does that mean I should be feeling honoured at being chosen by Suzumiya-san?" 

Koizumi giggled and continued, 

"After all, I Yes, I fancy Suzumiya-san," 

" Are you serious!?" 

You are joking!? 

"I think she's a very captivating person," 

Now where have I heard that before? Koizumi went on in a serious tone, 

"Yet, Suzumiya-san is only interested in my superficial attributes. She said it was only because 
I'm a transfer student that she bothered to speak to me. As I'm just a normal transfer student, she 
seems to be getting bored of it lately. In that SOS Brigade that you mentioned, what sort of 
special attributes did you have? If you have none, then that means Suzumiya-san is very fond of 
you, that is if that Suzumiya-san is the same person as the Suzumiya-san I know," 

No matter when it was, I don't think I've written into my resume any skills that would get me 
sent straight to a funny farm, besides the pretty useless skill of getting myself unwittingly 
dragged into mysterious events. 

Haruhi stuck her head through the door and yelled at us with a bright smile on her face, 

"Why're you two still here? Hurry up already!" 



While Koizumi waited at the counter for the waitress to count the change, I took my first step 
from the heat-filled coffee shop back into the cold outdoors where a single breath becomes 
visible. 

A taxi awaited outside the entrance of the coffee shop. Seems like Haruhi had hailed it. It looks 
like she wanted to get to North High as soon as possible. By the way, this wasn't the mysterious 
black cab that Koizumi and I would occasionally ride on, but a normal yellow cab. 

"To North High, full speed ahead!" 

Haruhi ordered the driver as she leapt onto the cab. I followed with Koizumi and sat in the back 
seat. The middle-aged driver didn't wince at being ordered around by a little girl, but merely 
smiled squeamishly and stepped on the gas pedal. 

"I don't really mind if you barge into North High," I said to the side of Haruhi's face, "But your 
uniform would stand out too much. Students from other schools would need a reason to get in, or 
it'd be troublesome if the teachers found out." 

Haruhi was wearing her black suit uniform, while Koizumi was in his gakuran uniform. There 
weren't many students around in the afternoon since it was a half school day, but if they were to 
enter the territory of sailor uniformed and navy blue suit uniformed students like that, they would 
be openly declaring that they were from another school. 

"Well, that's " 

Haruhi thought for three seconds, then said, 

"John, did you have PE lesson today? No, it doesn't matter even if you didn't. Your PE uniform 
is placed in your classroom, right?" 

Well, I was playing football during PE in the first session. 

"Then, did you bring your PE uniform and track suit?" 

I did, but why're you asking that for? 

Haruhi smiled enigmatically, 

"I will now tell you my plan for this mission. John, Koizumi-kun, lend me your ears." 

Does it really matter if the taxi driver overheard everything? Yet we still obediently leaned 
forward and listened as Haruhi quietly laid out her mission briefings. 

"That really sounds like what you'd do," 


I replied, and took a glance at Koizumi, who gave a complicated look as he grimaced. 



I got off the cab nearby North High first and went back to my classroom in order to prepare for 
Haruhi's infiltration of North High. 


By the way, the cab fare was also paid for by Koizumi. This Koizumi was basically Haruhi's 
walking wallet. I don't know what that poor fellow has done to her to deserve this. Could his 
feelings for Haruhi be romantic? I'd really like to ask just what does he fancy in Haruhi. Yet I 
remember Taniguchi once said that despite being eccentric, Haruhi was quite popular with the 
guys in junior high. That's not surprising; if she hadn't created the SOS Brigade in this school, 
then she would be busy shunning every guy that comes to pursue her indiscriminately. Does that 
mean the SOS Brigade is actually Haruhi's sanctuary? By becoming the undisputed leader of 
such a mysterious club, any sensible guy would automatically avoid her like a batter dodging a 
powerful pitch. Instead of being struck out three times and getting hit on the head by the ball, 
most people would prefer avoiding the ball altogether and taking it easy while walking towards 
the first base. 

I thought this to myself while heading towards the top floor. 

There weren't a lot of people in the school complex, but it wasn't entirely empty. Students who 
decided to stay for their club activities because they had nothing better to do at home were 
scattered here and there. Fortunately, the 1-5 classroom was empty. Actually I was quite afraid of 
being caught by Okabe-sensei. If I were him, I would want to know why someone who has 
decided to take the rest of the day off would want to sneak back into the classroom. 

Someone decided to help out and tidied my desk, I guess it's probably Asakura. I was wondering 
where my books and stationery went, turns out they were put away. Only my bag hung on one 
side of my desk, while the leather shoes that I was looking for were hung on the other side of the 
desk. 

"She sure has everything thought out." 

I sighed at Haruhi's meticulousness as I took out the sack containing my PE uniform. Inside this 
huge sports bag was a short sleeve PE shirt, a pair of shorts, a trainer jacket and a pair of 
trousers, all of which were worn during PE in the first session. The infiltration plan that Haruhi 
thought up of in the cab was obviously "disguising as North High students." "Koizumi-kun 
would wear your PE costume, while I'll put on the jacket and trousers. Then we'll simply run 
through the front gate, anyone will simply think we're from the Athletics Club and have just 
finished our jogging. This plan is perfect." 

In other words, like insects, we have to learn how to camouflage ourselves. At least it was better 
than having to randomly grab a guy and a girl from North High on their way home and take their 
clothes off. 



Well, that's not a bad idea either, 


Haruhi said nonchalantly as she stood from a corner which was quite a distance from the school 
gate while waiting for me. 

"It's less likely we'll be suspected if we dress up like you. Why didn't you tell us of this even 
better idea before?" 

That's highway robbery! How could I be expected to do such a thing? 

Haruhi untied the ropes on my sack and mercilessly turned it upside down, emptying its contents. 
The four pieces of clothes were now lying on the concrete road as a result. 

"Did you wash them?" 

About a week ago. 

"Excuse me, Suzumiya-san," 

Koizumi looked at my muddy PE uniform, like a desert mouse staring desperately at the 
Mongolian tiger that has been forced it into a dead-end corner, and said, 

"So where do we get changed? Is there some hidden place nearby?" 

"We can change here," 

Haruhi replied swiftly, and grabbed the trousers at once. 

"There aren't many people here, and it's not that cold if you change quickly. Don't worry, I'll turn 
around. John, you turn around as well, we'll cover for him, " 

She glanced quickly at me. What's that supposed to mean? 

"I wouldn't mind being watched," 

She smiled mischievously, then proceeded to put the trousers on under her skirt. 

"I never knew you had such long legs." 

She knelt down to fold up the long trousers, after adjusting the length, she then stood up and 
unhooked her skirt. 

The skirt simply slid down from her waist. She then took off her black blazer. As she begun to 
unbutton her blouse, I quickly turned aside. 

"It doesn't matter. I'm wearing a T-shirt inside anyway." 



The blouse fell on top of the blazer and skirt. I slowly turned my gaze back. Wearing a short- 
sleeved plain white T-shirt and a pair of sports trousers, Haruhi stood proudly while her long hair 
fluttered in the wind. As I stared at her like that, I suddenly had an urge to see a certain sight 
once again. 

"Hey, do you want to tie a ponytail?" 

Haruhi looked back at me, 

"What for?" 

No particular reason, just my preference really. 

Haruhi snorted casually, 

"Tying a ponytail may look easy, but tying a nice ponytail is easier said than done!" 

Nevertheless, from her blazer on the ground, Haruhi took out a rubber band and elegantly tied 
her long dark hair behind her head. 



Nevertheless, from her blazer on the ground, Haruhi took out a rubber band and elegantly tied her long 
dark hair behind her head. 

"This isn't so bad. Now I look more like I'm from the Athletics Club. So you think it's OK?" 

I think it's marvelous. For me, her charm has increased by at least 36%. 


Jerk. 



Just as I was wondering how to react to this, I realized she was only pretending to be angry. I 
ought to have known better. 


Though it took a while longer, even Koizumi had finished changing. It must've been tough on 
him to wear a short-sleeve T-shirt and shorts in such freezing weather. Not to mention he had to 
wear someone else's clothes, so it must've felt extra peculiar. Shivering with goosebumps, 
Koizumi asked, 

"Suzumiya-san, you're not going to wear your jacket, right? Mind if I borrow it?" 

Haruhi was also wearing short sleeves, yet she bore a smile that was enough to repel the cold and 
said, 

"No can do. I need that jacket to conceal my bag. I've already come this far disguised like this, 
I'm not going to let one bag ruin it." 

Indeed, the schoolbags for Kouyouen School and North High were slightly different in their 
exterior design. Haruhi opened up the track suit jacket like a table cloth and wrapped it around 
her and Koizumi's bags, and then ordered me to carry them. She then stuffed all her clothes and 
Koizumi's into my sack, and asked me to carry that as well. 

"Now then," 

Haruhi placed her arms on her hips and said, 

"Now we look like we just came back from marathon practice. Not bad, huh?" 

You're not bad, of course, but what about me? Where could you find an Athletic Club member 
carrying a lot of stuff while going on marathon training in regular uniform all at the same time? 

"Well, you could think of yourself as the manager of the Athletic Club! And now! One, two, 
fight! One, two, fight!" 

As the ponytailed girl ran off, I exchanged glances with Koizumi. Then, we shrugged our 
shoulders at the same time as we followed her. 

Both this Koizumi and I knew very well that it was tremendously difficult to stop Haruhi from 
running off, no matter what the circumstances. So besides chasing after her, there was nothing 
else we could do. 

It's always been like that, right? 

I don't know if it's a good or bad thing, but unlike Kouyouen, the gates at North High are always 
open. Guards are nowhere to be found. Everything was going according to plan; Haruhi's phony 
marathon run while shouting slogans came to an end quickly as we safely arrived at our 



destination, the entrance hall. I never thought it would be such a hassle just to bring Haruhi and 
Koizumi into my school; they were still entering and leaving this place regularly three days ago. 

"Such an old complex! Why are the walls prefabricated? Are prefecture schools really that poor? 
I was right not to enroll here." 

I listened to her very correct statement while turning my gaze away from the rows of shoe 
lockers. I had already changed into my indoor shoes. Just when I was wondering whether there 
were any more slippers for guests, Haruhi had already casually opened the locker nearest to her 
and was holding some random student's shoes. 

It was just like Haruhi to do that. I instinctively made a strange smile. 

"What are you smiling for? You sure look stupid. It's not like I did anything funny." 

After she said that, I quickly took my smile off. She was right: no matter what laws Haruhi might 
break, now was not the time to be smiling. 

I was thinking Taniguchi's foot size was probably about the same as Koizumi's, so I went and 
took Taniguchi's shoes and gave them to him. 

"Sorry about that." 

With a tone didn't sound sorry at all, Koizumi thanked me politely and put on the shoes. I stuffed 
the sneakers that he was wearing into Taniguchi's locker. 

I then took their bags, which were wrapped under the jacket, and carried them under my arm 
again. 

"I'll lead the way, follow me." 

"Hold it!" 

As I was about to walk off, Haruhi stopped me. She unconsciously toyed with her ponytail with 
her fingers and said, 

"That alien Nagato-san, she's in the Literature Club, right? 

To be precise, the current Nagato is a normal high school girl who was formerly an alien. 
Regardless, I guess she's still waiting for me to come over right now. 

"That Nagato-san probably wouldn't run away. Let's go get that time traveller Asahina-san. 
Where is she?" 


She's probably gone home Suddenly a thought came to my mind. My instincts weren't just for 

show, I didn't even need to trace my memories. I can say confidently that this Asahina-san who 



doesn't know me was carrying some calligraphy tools with her. Before she got dragged into the 
SOS Brigade, she was a member of the Calligraphy Club. That means she's still at school right 
now. 

"All right then, this way." 

I'm sorry, Nagato. Please wait just a little longer. We have to go to the Calligraphy Club room 
before coming to look for you. Silently praying that the Calligraphy Club was in today, I 
naturally increased my speed. 


The one who opened the door to the club room was Haruhi. That girl simply had no concept of 
the etiquette of knocking. I wasn't in the mood to lecture her on such minor details, while 
Koizumi stood uneasily at the corridor. 

There were three girls in the Calligraphy Club room; it looked like they were practicing writing 
calligraphy for new year greetings. 

"Which one of you here is Asahina-san?" 

" Can I help you?" 

The smallest of the three girls widened her eyes and said in a timid voice through her cherry red 
lips. 

"What is it " 

Asahina-san was sitting elegantly on the chair, holding her brush in mid-air. 

I leaned past Haruhi's shoulder and inspected the room. Tsuruya-san wasn't here. I breathed a 
sigh of relief. I remembered that she wasn't in the Calligraphy Club. 

Haruhi whispered to my ear, 

"It's her, right? Is she really a second year student? She looks more like a junior high student." 

"I too thought she was a junior high student. But you're right, she's Asahina-san." 

After hearing that, Haruhi walked in huge strides and began to bullshit at this little angel, who 
had stiffened while holding her brush, 


"I'm Suzumiya of the Student Council's Information Division. Asahina-san, the reason I've come 
is because there's something I need to ask you. Do you have a moment?" 



You ought to script your lies better, especially when you're dressed in a short-sleeve T-shirt and 
sports trousers! 


Asahina-san blinked her eyes nonstop and said nervously, 

"Student Council Information Division? What is that But I don't know anything," 

"It doesn't matter, just come with me!" 

Haruhi snatched her brush and threw it by the side of the paper, then grabbed Asahina-san's arm 
and forcefully pulled her up. The other club members were too stunned and frightened to be able 
to say anything. If Tsuruya-san were here, I might have been able to observe an interesting, out- 
of-this-world fight between her and Haruhi. Haruhi wrapped her arms around Asahina-san's 
waist and simply abducted her without giving an explanation. 

"Your breasts They're huge. Hmm, you're one of a kind. I like it!" 

Haruhi said cheerfully as she groped the breasts of an upper classman from another school. 

"Kyaa! Wah! Wh... Wha... Eh!?" 

Noticing me standing by the door, Asahina-san's eyes widened even further. She was probably 
thinking, It's that pervert from the other day! Asahina-san looked fearfully as well at Koizumi, 
who had to stand on one foot to keep warm as he was getting frozen while standing in the 
corridor. Koizumi looked at Asahina-san as though looking at a stranger and said, 

"I'm not a bad person, honest." 

Stop trying to act as though you have nothing to do with it. Especially when you're dressed like 
that, Koizumi. It won't work. 

Like a mother trying to stop her child from running away once being told she had to go see the 
dentist, Haruhi carried a struggling Asahina-san up and said, 

"Hey, John, that leaves just Nagato-san. Hurry up and take me to her." 

I don't need you to tell me that. 

After all, I have to rush over to that place before some keen-eyed student or teacher who had 
discovered that I skipped classes finds me. 

The place located on the third floor of the complex known as the Old Shack, the headquarters of 
the SOS Brigade, which is officially known as the club room for the Literature Club. 



This time I knocked on the door before opening it. 


"Hey, Nagato." 

The bespectacled girl lifted her gaze from the thick hardback library book on the table, 
"Ah " 

Seeing it was me, Nagato breathed a sigh of relief, 

"Eh?" 

When she saw Haruhi following me in, her eyes widened, 

" Eh?" 

Seeing Asahina-san being carried in by Haruhi, she opened her jaw, 


When she saw Koizumi entered last, she was speechless. 

"Hi there," 

Haruhi smiled brightly. After making sure everyone was in the room, she went and locked the 
door. Click! Upon hearing this sound, both Nagato and Asahina-san had the same reaction - their 
bodies stiffened up in fear. 

"W... What are you doing?" 

It was just like that day, Asahina-san was close to tears. 

"W... Where is this place? Why did you bring me here? And, w... Why are you locking the door? 
What do you want with me?" 

It was the exact same response, even I was moved to tears by this nostalgia. 

"Shut up!" 

Just like that day, Haruhi had the situation forcefully under control, she then inspected the whole 


room. 



"So that four-eyed girl is Nagato-san? Hi there! I'm Suzumiya Haruhi! This one here in PE 
uniform is Koizumi-kun; while this little girl here with extraordinarily large breasts is Asahina- 
san. As for that guy, you should know him, right? He's John Smith!" 

"John Smith...?" 

Nagato looked stunned as she pushed the rims of her glasses and looked at me in disbelief. I 
shrugged my shoulders and accepted this stupid name. Both Kyon and John sounded stupid 
anyway. 

"So... This is the SOS Brigade, huh? There's not a lot in here, but it's not a bad room. It's worth 
bringing some stuff over." 

Like a curious cat being brought to a new residence, Haruhi wandered around the room, looked 
out of the window, examined the books on the bookshelf looking interested, and then she said to 
me, 

"So, what do we do next?" 

Don't tell me you didn't think of that before deciding to come over? Man, that was so like 
Haruhi's way of thinking. 

"I'm for making this room as our headquarters, but it's so inconvenient to get here. It'll be a waste 
of time to come over here after school. I don't have any connections with anyone from North 
High. Oh yeah, why don't we just set a time and meet at the coffee shop in front of the station?" 

After saying this, no one besides me and the girl who was talking knew what was going on. 

Nagato looked like a doll with a troubled look; Asahina-san acted strangely as she trembled; 
while Koizumi began his miming act. 

I've got to say something, however, before I was able to speak... 


Ding! 


Suddenly, the computer which no one touched made some electronic noises. Nagato turned her 
head instinctively. 

"Huh?" 


Asahina-san had to lift her hips in order to see what was going on. All my knowledge about how 
these machines work has been sucked away by this strange computer. 



The ancient cathode ray tube screen made a static noise, and slowly illuminated - 1 only knew 
this from the reflection on Nagato's glasses. 

This was supposed to be corresponded by the sound of the hard disk spinning, yet no sound 
could be heard. I've seen this happen before... No, I remember back then I had to turn the 
machine on first... The OS screen did not appear, instead the screen displayed an odd appearance 
that looked very familiar... 

"Let me have a look," 

My body moved on its own. I pushed Haruhi aside and dashed to the front of the screen. 

Silently displayed on the dark gray screen was a line of words. 


YUKI.N > If you are reading this. 


I am probably no longer myself. 


...Yes, that's it, Nagato... 


"What's going on here? No one's typing anything, this is creepy!" 

"Maybe it's been programmed to turn on at a certain time? But this computer sure looks old. It 
must've been a lot of work for such an old machine." 

I could not listen to anything Haruhi and Koizumi said behind me. I didn't even dare to blink, for 
fear of missing a single word or sentence. I could hear my heart thumping in my ears as I stared 
at the screen. 


YUKI.N > When 
Asahina Mikuru 


this message appears, it means that you, me, Suzumiya 
and Koizumi Itsuki have all been gathered here. 


Haruhi , 


It was as if the words were moving to match my reading speed. Without any decorative 
description, the cursor then typed out the following words: 


YUKI.N > This is the key. You have found the answer. 



I didn't exactly find the answer. It was more like me stumbling into it while being forcefully 
dragged by Haruhi along with Koizumi. This Haruhi sure is quite useful... By the way, Nagato, 
it's been a while. 

I watched the words on the screen feeling nostalgic. Though the lines were silent, inside my heart 
I could hear Nagato reading each word monotonously. The cursor continued to move: 


YUKI.N > This is the Emergency Escape Program. To activate it, hit the 
"Enter" key, otherwise, 

hit any other key. Once activated, you will be given a chance to repair the 
space-time continuum. 

However, neither success nor your safe return can be guaranteed. 


Emergency Escape Program. That's it! It's in this computer! 


YUKI.N > This program can only be executed once. Once it is executed, it 
will be deactivated. 

Should you choose not to activate it, it will also be deactivated. Are you 
ready? 


This was the last line of words. The cursor at the end flickered non-stop. 

Should I hit "Enter"? Or should I hit some other key? 

When I came to my senses, I realized Haruhi was peeking over my shoulder. 

"What does it all mean? Is it some secret organization? John, stop fooling around and explain 
already!" 

I completely ignored Haruhi, Koizumi and Asahina-san. During this moment, my eyes were 
neither fixed on Haruhi in her ponytail, Koizumi in my PE uniform, nor the ever-so-cute 
Asahina-san. I had put all my attention onto this computer and the only other person in this 
room. I said to the bespectacled girl who was staring at the screen looking stunned: 

"Nagato, do you have any recollection of this?" 


...No, 



Are you sure? 


"Why do you ask?" 

Why was she in such a hurry to deny any involvement? It was you who is typing those words I 

had wanted to say that, but if I did, this Nagato would probably freak out. 

I decided to examine the last part of the message once again. 

This was a message Nagato left for me, it was the Nagato that I had always known that wrote it. 
To be honest, I didn't really understand what this Emergency Escape Program meant, and the 
disclaimer about success not being completely guaranteed unsettled me. 

Yet, I've come this far, there's no point fretting about it. I used to place my entire trust on that 
Nagato, and I could only trust her again now. She rarely makes any mistakes. Besides trusting 
Nagato, the silent alien-created Living Humanoid Interface who has saved my life numerous 
times, who else could I trust? If I doubt even what she says, then I really need to doubt what my 
mind is thinking. 

"Hey, John. What's wrong? You look so strange." 

Haruhi's voice sounded as if it came from a distance. 

"Please leave me alone for a while. I'm trying to organize my thoughts." 

Right now, I really needed to think things over. A Haruhi and Koizumi who study in a different 
school, an Asahina-san who wasn't a time traveler, and a Nagato who doesn't seem to know 
anything. After thinking about these, I realized that these weren't the things I should be worrying 
about now. 

The words written by Nagato on the screen were her personal thoughts. The genuineness of that 
message cannot be doubted. 

I stretched my arms and took a deep breath. 

That's it... 

The only thing I was sure was that I wanted to get out of this world. I wanted to see the SOS 
Brigade once again, which I was so familiar with that it has become a part of my daily life, as 
well as everyone in that world. The Haruhi, Asahina-san, Koizumi and Nagato here weren't the 
ones that I knew. There was no 'Organization' or Integrated Data Entity here, and the adult 
version of Asahina-san would never visit this world, since everything's so messed up. 

It didn't take me long to make up my mind. 

I took out a crumpled piece of paper from my jacket... 



"I'm sorry, Nagato, but you can have it back. 


Nagato's pale fingers slowly reached out to receive the blank club application form. Once I let 
go, the application form flickered about, though there was hardly any wind in here. After missing 
her grip once, she finally grabbed hold of it the second time around. 

"This..." 

Nagato's voice was even shaking, her eyes concealed by her eyelashes. 

"However," I quickly explained, "To tell the truth, I was already a member of this room to begin 
with. There was no need for me to join the Literature Club, as for the reason..." 

Haruhi, Koizumi and Asahina-san all looked and me and thought, What the hell is he talking 
about? Nagato's expression was covered by her hair, so I couldn't see properly. It doesn't matter. 
Don't worry, Nagato. No matter what happens next, I'll definitely return to this room. 

"As for the reason, that's because I'm a member of the SOS Brigade." 

Are you ready? 

You bet. 

I stretched out my finger and hit the "Enter" key. 


In the next moment. 


"Whoa!?" 

When I stood up, I was hit by a very intense dizziness. I involuntarily grabbed hold of the desk 
as my vision spun before me. I could feel my ears buzzing as I heard the sounds of people talking 
coming from afar. Everything went black. I lost all sense of balance, I felt as though I was 
drifting around, just like a tree leaf that had fallen into a rapid, spinning forever non-stop. The 
voices calling me started to drift away, what were they trying to say? Was it John or Kyon? I 
wasn't sure myself, it didn't sound like it's from Haruhi. It's so dark, am I falling? Where was I 
falling to? Someone should at least tell me. 

My thoughts were in complete chaos. Were my eyes really open? I couldn't see anything, nor 
could I hear anything. I could only feel myself floating. Just where was my body? What about 
Haruhi? Everything's gone twisted. Koizumi, Asahina-san, where am I? Just where was I going? 
Just what awaits me in this Emergency Escape Program? 



Nagato. 


"Whoa!?" 

I yelled once again, my ankles were nearly cracked as I barely managed to support myself. It was 
only then I realized I was still standing. 

"What the hell...?" 

It was dark everywhere, though not dark enough where you couldn't see your own fingers. I was 
relieved I could still see. 

"Where am I..." 

Looking out at the dim lights shining into the window, I confirmed my position. This looks like a 
room, and I seem to be holding on to a table. On top of the table was an old computer... 

"The Literature Club room!" 


It was the Literature Club room from before. 

Yet Nagato wasn't here. Haruhi, Asahina-san and Koizumi had also vanished. Only I remained. 
The sun seems to have set already, even though sunlight was still shining through the window a 
while ago. It's gone dark rather a bit too quick. I looked through the window and into the 
sparsely populated night skies, seeing the few stars glittering. Time sure flies by quickly. 

The room was the same as before. There was a bookshelf, a long table, and an old computer. I 
understood at once just by seeing these. I didn't return to my original world, since there wasn't 
any stuff from the SOS Brigade. The Commander's Desk wasn't here, neither was Asahina-san's 
cosplay wardrobe. It was still an empty Literature Club room ...but... 

The sweat on my forehead dripped into my eyes. I promptly wiped them off with the sleeves of 
my jacket. 

Something's not right. 

Just what was this disorienting feeling? I already knew where I was. This was indeed the 
Literature Club room. Are you a taiko drum? I suddenly remembered the pun Taniguchi made 
earlier, but that's not the problem. Yes, the problem wasn't about where this place was. 


This is... 



Suddenly, I discovered the truth of why I was feeling so disoriented! At the same time, my body 
temperature felt as though it has risen sharply, but that wasn't quite accurate. The truth was that 
the surrounding temperature was already high, hence my body temperature had risen as well, so 
it wasn't an illusion. 

I couldn't take it anymore, and took off my jacket. All the pores in my body opened up at once 
and sweated. I then took off my sweater and rolled up the sleeves of my shirt, yet the heat 
accumulated inside the room barely dispersed. 

"This is too hot!" 

I began to grumble. 

"It's feels as hot as..." 

A hot summer's night. 

In that case, there was only one question I should be asking right now, 


What season is it right now? 


Chapter 4 

Chapter 4 


I believe anyone who has experienced it would know how scary it is to walk alone at school in 
the dark. 

I hung my jacket over my shoulder and walked slowly out of the club room. Like a ninja, I tried 
not to make any sound when walking down the stairs. Every time I reached a corner, I would 
always take a look around me before moving any further. It sure was exhausting! I had no idea 
what date it was in this North High, but it'd be troublesome if I was seen by an on-duty teacher. I 
wouldn't even know how to explain this— in fact, I wish someone would explain all this to me 
instead! 

I walked sweatily under the humid air and finally reached the entrance hall. 


Now, what do we have here... 


After saying that, I opened my shoe locker. Inside were someone else's indoor shoes— I was 
pretty sure they weren't mine. I quickly eliminated the possibility of someone opening the wrong 
locker and taking my shoes by mistake. It was the middle of summer right now, that means I've 
once again leaped into another dimension — I'm quite amazed I could have such an imagination. 
The current owner of this shoe locker wasn't me, but someone from this world or dimension. I 
wasn't as surprised as I expected myself to be, either because I was already used to this stuff, or 
because I was already numb to such overwhelming events. 

"Can't be helped." 

Obviously it wouldn't look nice to be wearing indoor shoes outside, but I was left with no other 
choice. My priority was to leave the school complex. As expected, the entrance door was locked 
tight at night. So I walked to a nearby window, unlocked it and opened it carefully. I slowly 
inhaled the fragrant night breeze and leaped out the window and onto the stony steps, where 
Haruhi had awoken me when we had been inside the Sealed Dimension. 

I stopped for about ten seconds. After making sure no one could see me, I continued onward. 

It was just as hot outside the school complex. This was a typical, humid Japanese summer heat. I 
just came over from the freezing cold winter, so all my sweat glands were now opening up like 
mad. I wiped the sweat off my face with my long sleeved shirt and headed towards the gate. 

It was easy once I was outside. I must thank the school's non-existent security— I only needed to 
climb over the fence and that was it. After climbing over, I picked up my jacket which I had 
thrown across beforehand, and looked up at the starry sky as I pondered my next move. 

Right now, I need to know what date and what time it is now. After all, there was a huge time 
difference between the past and the future. 

Might as well walk down the hill first. There should be a convenience store along the way. If I 
walked into a nearby residence and asked, "What year and month is it today?" I'd probably be 
treated as a demented high school student and locked up by the authorities. Better to go 
somewhere where I could find out the date without having to ask someone. 

"Still, it's quite hot..." 

I was already hot as I was wearing my winter uniform, but now even my trousers were glued to 
my legs by all the sweat. At that moment, I truly hated the inventor of these synthetic fibers. Not 
to mention this winter uniform doesn't even keep one warm in winter; it's only designed to look 
nice. 

The fact that I was mumbling about such stuff meant that my brain was beginning to function 
properly again. Instead of freezing in the winter waiting for spring to arrive, I'd rather be 
complaining about how hot summer was while waving a fan. Besides, I've had too many 
memories of my first summer in high school, though they were all physically and mentally 
exhausting, yet once I got them over with, they weren't so bad at all. At least I got to see 



Asahina-san in a swimsuit. I don't think we've had any SOS Brigade style activities in winter so 
far. 


My mind was occupied with the taste of the hot pot I was missing as I walked down the slope. 
After fifteen minutes, I finally saw an illuminated sign. It was a convenience store which I 
occasionally go to so I can grab a bite on my way home. At least I knew another thing, the 
current time was before the store closes for the day. 

I couldn't wait for the automatic doors to open, and looked around the wall once I got inside. It 
took some time for me to get used to the coolness of the air conditioning. During this time, I 
looked heartily at the analogue clock hanging on the wall. 

Eight thirty. 

As the sun had already set, it should be eight thirty at night. 

What about the date? What year was it? There were all kinds of newspapers on the rack. Any one 
would do. I randomly picked up a sports daily in the front and browsed very quickly at the 
contents. It doesn't matter what was being written; even if it were the wildest imaginations 
cooked up by some third-rate tabloid, they wouldn't go so far as to fake the date at the top of the 
page, as well, would they? 

My gaze stopped on a certain spot, and I saw it. 

A set of numbers, which some people would consider lucky, entered my vision. 

What year was it? As though I was trying to swallow the paper, I carefully confirmed the year 
that was printed on top. The store assistant took a quick glance at me looking annoyed, but I 
couldn't care less about that now. 

I stared at the four digit number again and again. If I subtracted the year I had arrived from— 
where I was still having a cold December— from the year on this sports daily... Even a kid would 
know the answer to such a simple math question. 

"So that's how it is, Nagato..." 

I lifted my head from the newspaper and sighed deeply as I looked at the ceiling. 

The joyously romantic Tanabata festival. 


Today was the 7th of July of three years ago. 



Tanabata, three years ago... Just what happened on this day? 

The Tanabata of "this year" was like a rhapsody; after writing our wishes and hanging them out 
on a bamboo stick, I had accepted Asahina-san's invitation and traveled back in time to this day. 
Afterwards, I met the adult version of Asahina-san, who urged me to go to East Junior High that 
night. And so, I came across a seventh-grade Haruhi about to climb over the fence and was 
dragged along to help her write a message to outer space on the school's track field with white 
chalk. 

Thereafter, I brought Asahina-san (small), who lost her time -traveling device called a TPDD, to 
Nagato's high-class apartment, and there the two of us slept for three years, allowing us to return 
to where we came from... 

"That means..." 

This was easier than a simple math problem. All I needed to do was trace back what I had done 
that day. That's it, I've finally got the gist of it, the essential step needed to restore the twisted 
world back to order. 

It has to be like that, right? 

My legs were trembling hard, not from fear but rather the thrilling sensation from realizing that 
something very important needs to be done. 

Three years ago. Tanabata. East Junior High. The mysterious signs. John Smith. 

As all the seemingly unrelated pieces begin to add up, I finally came to a conclusion. It was a 
simple yet clear conclusion, I spoke the same line once again, 

"That means..." 

"They" are "here". 

The seductively charming Asahina-san (big) and the Nagato Yuki in standby mode. 

The two helpful people who could assist me were right here in this time period. 


I threw down the newspaper and bolted out of the convenience store, thinking as I ran along. 

I remember that the first time when I came to three years ago, which was right now, Asahina-san 
had woken me up on a bench in the park near Kouyouen Station and told me "It's about nine at 
night." If I were to run for about half an hour, I should be able to reach there in time. The only 



problem was whether the culprit had also made changes to this time period. If there were 
changes, then I would not find my other self there. In any case, I've got to make contact with 
Asahina-san (big) or Nagato in her luxury apartment, or I could meet both. That means there 
were two places I should go, the question was where to go first. 

Nagato would be in her apartment all the time, so I could see her anytime, but I would only find 
Asahina-san (big) in that specific time and place. 

Dressed as a teacher, this adult Asahina-san was the one who had given me a hint concerning 
Snow White and quickly left, hailing from an even farther future than the Asahina-san I knew. 
The image of her pinching her younger seifs face and smiling cheerfully was still fresh in my 
memory. 

That Asahina-san must know who I am, there should be no doubt about that. 


Though the park wasn't far from the station, there were hardly any people there. Maybe it's 
because it's very late now; this is an ideal time for all types of suspicious characters to come out. 
Is this the holy land for freaks I wonder... I was thinking the same thing when I first came here 
during the last Tanabata visit. 

I didn't feel like making a grand entrance, so I had to walk alongside the brick wall of the park in 
the dark. Though it's called a wall, it was only as tall as my waist, while on top of it was a large 
wire fence, and surrounding it were all sorts of bushes. It was extremely easy to hide without 
being seen by anyone inside the park in the daytime, let alone at night, though I'll need to be 
careful of any pedestrians outside giving me weird gazes behind my back. 

I recalled the position of the bench where I had woken up that time and slowly moved along the 
wall to find an ideal hiding spot. 

It was nearly nine at night. 

I guess what I'm doing can be called voyeurism. After sticking my neck out from within the 
bushes, I finally saw what I wanted to see. 

"...That's the one." 

It feels like watching myself starring in a movie. It also feels like watching myself from a third- 
person's perspective in a dreamscape. 


But how am I gonna explain this... 



The bench appeared under the illumination of the lamps, as though being showered by the bright 
light. Though it was a bit far, I couldn't be mistaken, the two people on top were both wearing 
North High uniforms. It was as I remembered. 

My past self and Asahina-san were sitting right there. 

That other "me" was lying horizontally, resting his head on Asahina-san's lap while sleeping. I'd 
be lying if I said I wasn't dreaming of anything worth drooling over. If a person couldn't get 
sweet dreams using the world's most precious pillow, then there's no way he could ever sleep in 
peace. 

Being used as a pillow, Asahina-san would occasionally take a look at me sleeping on her lap, or 
blow softly into my ear, or toy around with it. Man, I was feeling jealous already... No, wait, why 
was I feeling jealous over myself, anyway? 

For a moment, I really felt like shoving off that other "me" and taking his place, but in the end I 
decided to suppress that impulse. The "me" in this time did not see my other self then. If I rushed 
out now, things would just get complicated... right? The space-time continuum was already 
messed up as it is; the last thing I want is to mess it up further myself. 

Withholding my body's irrational impulsiveness, I continued my role as a Peeping Tom. The 
more I thought about it, the more pleased I was with myself for managing to keep my composure 
at such an odd time. 

It was under such thoughts that I continued my observation. Asahina-san moved her cherry-red 
lips and said something; sleeping on her lap, "I" moved slightly and then slowly woke up. I 
couldn't hear anything from where I was hiding, but I remembered clearly that Asahina-san said, 
"Oh, you've awakened?" 

After conversing for a while with Asahina-san, she then felt tired and rested her head on "my" 
shoulder... 

The bush behind the bench ruffled, and that person appeared. 

Wearing a white long-sleeved blouse and a blue mini-skirt, there's no way I could ever forget 
that teacher's outfit. 

Just before the end of May, she wrote me a note asking to meet me, and then gave me the hint 
about Snow White. She even told me about her star-shaped birthmark, as well. And then on this 
day, that is on Tanabata, she made Asahina-san (small) fall asleep, then guided me to where 
Haruhi was before disappearing... 

The adult version of Asahina-san. 


Her height and body had both grown for a couple of years, coming from an even farther future 
than Asahina-san the time traveler, this was none other than Asahina-san (big). 



It was just like that time. 


It's true, I was there myself on Tanabata three years ago, yet what was happening was exactly the 
same as I had remembered. 

After speaking to "me" for a while, Asahina-san (big) knelt down to pinch Asahina-san's (small) 
face and caressed her body, she then stood up to say something to "me" again. 

It was her mission to bring you here, yet from here onwards, it would be my mission to guide 
you. 

Um... Just what is... 

I think that's what was being said. 

After explaining everything to a wide -jawed "me", Asahina-san (big) then walked away and 
disappeared from the illumination of the street lamp. It was now that I noticed that she was 
heading towards the exit that was opposite to the one leading to East Junior High. 

"I" remained awestruck, staring at the sleeping Asahina-san (small) and thinking about 
something. I wanted to recall what it was that "I" had been thinking of, but I abandoned trying to 
walk down Memory Lane after a few seconds, as I didn't want to lose track of Asahina-san (big). 

I dashed out from the bushes where I was hiding and walked quickly along the edge of the park. 
There was no longer any need to hide my presence, as when I was "me", "I" did not notice me. 

At that time, "my" attention was not fixed on me who came from another time period, neither did 
"I" realize there was another me in this time period. This made sense, as the "me" in the past 
could never have realized how messed up the time-space continuum in my time period would 
become. There was no time to pay any more attention to "me", who was too busy carrying 
Asahina-san on his back to be worried about other things. I decided to walk away. 

After passing the next corner I saw her at about a hundred meters away. She was walking with 
her back towards me. The tapping sounds made by her high-heeled shoes sounded melodic. She 
didn't seem to be in a hurry— suits me as I was in a hurry to see her. If I lose her now, then I 
really won't know why I went through all the trouble to come here. 

Walking a bit faster, I shortened my distance to her. Under the dim lights at night, her long limbs 
and flowing hair seemed to glimmer in the light. Though I could only see her back, I was sure it 
was her. 

It didn't take me long to catch up and call out to her, 

"Asahina-san!" 

She stopped. The soft sound of her high-heeled shoes tapping on the ground ended. The soft 
brown hair on her back wavered. As if in slow motion, she gradually turned around. 



I wondered what she was going to say. 


Huh? Didn't we just say goodbye a while ago? 

Did you follow me all the way here? You couldn't have. 

Hey, where's my other self? 

In the end, it was none of the above. 

"Good evening, Kyon-kun." 

With a beautiful face that was just as I had remembered, she greeted me with a beaming smile. 



£3 

With a beautiful face that was just as I had remembered, she greeted me with a beaming smile. 

"It's been a while. For 'you', that is." 

The adult Asahina-san winked after saying that. It was indeed the smile that I last saw five 
months ago. 

With the expression of a relieved child, Asahina-san (big) said, 

"Thank goodness, we get to meet here again. Actually I was a bit worried whether I had made 
any mistakes," 

"I'm still pretty clumsy," Asahina-san said and then cutely stuck out her tongue. It was such a 
charming move that was enough to soften the bones inside one's body. But if I were to melt into 
a pile of dirt right now, then I'll lose everything. 



This Asahina-san knew what I was about to do next. 


Trying my best to control my tongue, which seemed to have a mind of its own, I spoke, 

"Asahina-san, so you knew I'd come here You knew I'd return to this time, and in this place, 

right?" 

"Yes," Asahina-san nodded her head, "Because this is a predetermined fact," 

"On that day of Tanabata, the little Asahina-san would bring me to the Tanabata three years 
ago Which is today. You must be the one who had arranged for her to bring me here, right?" 

"Yes, that is a prerequisite. Otherwise, you would not be here now," 

If I hadn't gone to East Junior High and drawn those graffiti, I wouldn't have told the seventh- 
grade Haruhi now that my name was "John Smith". Of course, that would mean that the Haruhi 
studying in her first year in Kouyouen School would never have heard of that name. In other 
words, I would not have found the link. Because besides that name, there would be no link 
whatsoever with me and that Haruhi who I was just with a few hours ago. As a result, the five of 
us would not be gathered in the club room, and the Escape Program would not be activated. 

At this time, a question arose in my head. That other John Smith Could it be!? 

"That would be you, Kyon-kun. The current you," 

Asahina-san (big) gave me a smile as pretty as a white rose, 

"It's a bit tiring talking while standing up, let's find somewhere to sit down. We still have time," 

The power in her smile and words was enough to dispel all the anxiety and confusion within me. 

If Asahina-san (big) was here, that means the future still exists. Not the chaotic future after 
December 1 8th, but the future where I and the Haruhi and Asahina-san I knew came from. 

There's got to be a way. 

I've obtained a sense of confidence that made me feel relieved. As if to further boost that 
confidence, she continued, 

"From now on, guiding you will be my mission. But after that, you're on your own. I will only 
follow your lead then," 

She then gave me a wink that was enough to cause my knees to go soft. 



We returned to the park and sat on the bench where Asahina-san (small) and "I" were sitting a 
while ago. Before sitting down, Asahina-san (big) looked as though she were touching an 
ancestral relic as she softly caressed the bench. I gradually sat down looking serious as well. The 
bench was still warm, it was the body warmth of myself and Asahina-san who five months ago 
had traveled back three years ago in time. 

I asked quickly, 

"Did something happen to the flow of time? I knew that the time period where I came from is 
linked to this Tanabata. If that wasn't the case, I wouldn't have arrived here. Then, Asahina- 

san Does that mean there's no connection between the future you're from and the altered 

future I came from?" 

"I can't tell you the details," 

I thought so, must be one of those classified information, huh? 

"No," 

Asahina-san (big) shook her head, 

"I cannot explain it in a way you would comprehend. Our STC Theory is built on specific 
concepts. It's too difficult to convey it in speech for you to understand. Do you still remember the 
time when I first told you my true identity?" 

I sure do, sitting by the river bank with the cherry blossom petals falling, I heard Asahina-san, 
who I always thought to be just a cute upperclassman, reveal the shocking truth about her being a 
time traveler. 

"At that time, didn't I say something that you could hardly understand? That's the point. If I had 
explained, I would just make you even more confused," 

Asahina-san (big) softly hit the side of her head as though knocking on it while winking at the 
same time. Every little thing she does is just so sexy. 

"This is a concept that cannot be explained in speech, it can only be conveyed in ways other than 
that. Do you understand?" 

Nope. As though trying to teach a kindergarten kid calculus, Asahina continued to explain to me, 
who was already feeling dizzy, 

"Um, but, soon you will understand. You will. That's all I can tell you now," 



Soon you will understand. Where have I heard of that before? That's it, it was Nagato. Nagato 
had told me the same thing before No, hang on. 


A flash of inspiration was triggered by the synapses in my brain as I gave the following reaction, 

"Before summer vacation The one Nagato mentioned in the giant cave cricket incident 

About how computers in the future aren't like what they are now, could it be " 

"Wow, that's impressive. You still remember that? You're right, the equivalent to computers or 

the so-called Internet in this time period, um It does not exist in a material sense in our time 

period, but rather it exists in a shapeless sense within our brains. The TPDD is also the same," 

The object that wasn't supposed to disappear but has gone missing. 

"Is that a time -traveling device?" 

"It's a Time Plane Destruction Device," 

Isn't that supposed to be classified information!? 

"Well, it was classified for me back then. But for me, the rules have been relaxed a lot. The fact 
that I could come here means I've been working very hard," 

Asahina-san proudly puffed up her chest, the buttons on her blouse were close to popping out. A 
physically impossible body proportion was revealed before my eyes, normally I would be dazed 
by such a sight, but sadly, I wasn't in the mood to satiate the appetite of my eyes with such 
scenery. I continued to ask, 

"What's the cause of it? I knew the future I'm from had changed, but when did it start to change?" 

"For more details you should try asking Nagato-san in this time period. I can only tell you one 
thing: the change in the time plane where you came from occurred three years from 'now', on the 
morning of December 18th," 

For me, that would be two days ago. So it's the time plane that's changed? In that case Once 

again I tried to recall the two possibilities that Koizumi suggested. Turns out the non-alternate 
world theory was the correct one. 

"That's correct. Overnight, the STC files I mean, the whole world has changed. Only your 

memories remained intact. It was a massive time-quake that could be detected even in the distant 
future," 

It's not like I wasn't interested in what the STC or time-quake were, it's just that I didn't have 
time to delve into these irrelevant things, as I had more pressing questions to ask, 



"Asahina-san, is it because you needed to resolve this huge change in the future that even I got 
involved in that you were waiting here?" 


"It can't be done by myself alone," her face began to darken, "I would need the assistance of 
Nagato-san. Of course, it can't be done without Kyon-kun as well," 

"Who is the culprit? I can only think of Haruhi doing this," 

"No," 

Asahina-san retracted her smile and said seriously, 

"It wasn't Suzumiya-san. The culprit is someone else," 

"Is it some new unknown person? Like some out-of-world slider that I've not met or something 
like that " 

"No," 

Interrupting me, Asahina-san looked worried for some reason as she said, 

"It's someone you know very well." 


After looking at her watch, Asahina-san (big) said there's still time and began to think 
nostalgically of her memories with the SOS Brigade. For me, all those memories had taken place 
this year, yet for her it was many years ago. Being dragged by Haruhi into the club room, forced 
to dress up as a bunny girl, making wishes in Tanabata, encountering a murder mystery on a lone 
island, wearing yukatas in the O-bon festival, the whole brigade gathering together to work on 
our summer vacation homework, the various things that happened while shooting the movie on 

location As my memories were slowly being rekindled, Asahina-san's (big) voice became 

slower and slower. 

I was looking forward to hearing what my future would be like, and was waiting for her mouth to 
skip. Yet Asahina-san was extremely cautious about that, and kept the topic limited to the usual 
chit-chat. 

"It may have been rough, but those memories were great." 

After making her concluding statement, Asahina-san kept quiet and gazed at me silently. 

I was thinking about what to comment on as something soft yet warm landed on my shoulder. It 
was Asahina-san's head. What was the meaning behind this action of hers? The weight of her 



body leaning against me was worth it's weight in gold - the fragrance and weight stimulated my 
nerves and triggered all sorts of wild thoughts in my brain, I just couldn't think properly at all. 
What was she trying to convey with that aroma from the cloth of her blouse? Was she trying to 
feel something from me? Closing her eyes and leaning her face on my shoulder, Asahina-san 
(big) didn't say anything, yet I could feel her cherry-red lips moving. She seems to be whispering 
about something, just what was it? 

Could it be I began to drift into fantasy again. Could this Asahina-san fall asleep as well, 

only to have another Asahina-san appear and tell me something enigmatic as well? And so I 

remain here forever as I meet numerous Asahina-sans from different time periods Damn it, 

my thoughts were becoming as mixed as the laundry in a washing machine, going around in the 
same circles. Just what was I thinking!? Can someone please bother telling me!? 

Asahina-san (big) leaned on me for about another minute or so. 

"Hee hee." 

As if she could read my thoughts, she smiled and said, 

"It's almost time. Let's go." 

She stood up as though nothing had happened, though it was a pity, I had no choice but to return 
to my senses. She's right, it's time to go. Um Where're we going anyway? 

The second destination. 

The time was ten at night on Asahina-san's watch, that was the time after "I" had completed my 
role as an accomplice to Haruhi the seventh grader and finished drawing the graffiti on the track 
field of East Junior High. It was the time when "I" held the hand of a sobbing Asahina-san as we 
entered Nagato's apartment. It was at this time when time became frozen for "me". 

Time to pay Nagato another visit. 

"Before that," 

Asahina-san gave a heart-thumping and glittering smile and said, 

"Isn't there something else you need to do first?" 


After walking a short distance from the park, I came to a residential area. 
Following Asahina-san's directions, I turned into an alley. 



Ahead in the dark path was a tiny figure dashing like the wind. With a tiny pair of arms and legs 
sticking out from the short-sleeved T-shirt and shorts, she moved further and further away as her 
hair flowed. 

"Hey!" 

The tiny figure in a T-shirt and shorts slowly turned her head. After making sure she had noticed 
me, I cupped my mouth with my hands and shouted without holding back, 

"Please take good care of the John Smith who would shake the world!" 

After having a quick look at me, the seventh grader turned around looking pissed for some 
reason and marched forward. 

She was probably thinking she'll be able to find me anyway if she went to North High, so she 
turned without hesitation. Looking at that semi-long dark hair, I quietly added, 

"Please remember it, Haruhi. You have to remember the name John Smith " 

I prayed with the bottom of my heart to the 12-year-old Haruhi, who would probably continue to 
be mischievous in East Junior High for some time to come. 

Please don't forget that I was here. 


I knew the road to the high class apartment like the back of my hand, so I could practically walk 
there with my eyes closed. Walking just ahead of Asahina-san (big), I lifted my head to look at 
the building which I had just visited about twenty hours ago. Though we were still outside, 
Asahina-san (big) had already hidden her nice figure and stood behind me. 

" Kyon-kun, I have a favor." 

Seeing as how she was basically begging me, there was no reason for me to turn her down. No 
matter which time period Asahina-san is from, I'm not weird enough to turn down her request. 

"I'm sorry, but even now I still feel uneasy when I'm with Nagato-san " 

That reminds me, Asahina-san (small) was like that every time she was in the club room, it was 
the same the last time she came here. Besides Haruhi, the only other person to keep his 
composure when in the presence of an alien or time traveler was Koizumi. 


That's fine, I understand, 



I said gently as I entered the number 708 on the keypad next to the entrance, I then pushed the 
bell button. 

A few seconds later, the intercom gave a knocking sound, indicating someone was listening on 
the other end. 

Silence was greeted by silence and returned to my ear. 

"Nagato, it's me." 

Silence. 

"Sorry about this, I don't know how to explain it myself. In any case, I'm back from the future. 
Asahina-san is with me as well, the adult version that is. Oh, that's Differential Temporal Variant 
for you." 

Silence. 

"I need your help. After all, the one who threw me into this time period was you." 

Silence. 

"Both Asahina-san and I should be in your apartment, right? Sleeping in that time frozen guest 
room " 

Beep. The lock to the gate opened. 

"Come in." 

The voice of Nagato coming through the intercom felt so soothing. It was as calm as usual, 
without any exclamation or depression, though she sounded as though she was surprised, but 
maybe that's just me. There's nothing Nagato couldn't do. Even in this situation she's sure to find 
a way out, otherwise I'm finished. 

As if walking into a fortress in her high-heeled shoes, Asahina-san grabbed hold of my belt with 
her finger, looking extremely nervous. After opening its door, the elevator began to take us up 
vertically once we were inside. 

Finally, we have come before the familiar door of Room 708. 

There was a doorbell, but it wasn't working yet, so I knocked silently on the door. I could not 
sense anyone standing behind the door, yet the metallic door still opened. 



The bespectacled face looked through the gap towards me, she then moved her gaze over onto 
Asahina-san (big) before moving it back onto me. 


ft 


ft 


Being expressionless and silent at the same time, she was so devoid of any emotion that I really 
wanted someone to beg her to say something. This was Nagato indeed, the Nagato Yuki that I 
first knew. The original Nagato during the beginning of the school term in spring, as well as the 
one which "I" had asked help from "three years ago." 

"May we come in?" 

After a thoughtful silence, Nagato nodded her head for about a centimeter or so, then turned 
towards her apartment. I guess I'll take that as a "yes." I said to the beautiful woman standing 
right behind me looking anxious, 

"Let's go, Asahina-san," 

"Er You're right, it'll be fine," 

Sounds as though she was saying it for herself. 

By the way, how many times have I visited this place already? According to my biological clock, 
this would be my fourth time, but chronologically, this was only my second time here. I've 
already been so confused by the order of time that I was impressed that my biological clock 
didn't malfunction. Leaping from winter to summer and coming back to three years ago twice, it 
would have been normal if something wrong had happened to me, yet right now I'm feeling fine. 
Not to mention my thoughts are the clearest they've been since I was born. Maybe I've gotten so 
used to all these surreal experiences that I've taken it for granted. If it was someone else, his 
mind would have short-circuited already. 

When I look at it once again, Nagato's lifeless apartment was as cold as I had remembered it. It 
was no different from the "three years ago" which we went to back in May. 

What was reassuring was that this Nagato was still the Nagato I knew. She was still 
expressionless and emotionless, she wouldn't panic if something were to happen, the ever 
reliable alien. 

I took off my shoes and walked through the narrow corridor before coming to the living room. 
Nagato was there waiting. She stood there all alone, staring silently at me and Asahina-san. Even 
if she was surprised at our visit, I could not tell it from her face. Maybe she was already getting 
used to me coming to visit her from the future, though I didn't want to keep coming back to this 
day again and again myself. 

"I guess we can skip the introductions," 



Nagato didn't sit down, so Asahina-san and I remained standing, 


"This is the adult version of Asahina-san, I believe you've met each other before," Just as I said 
that, I remembered that that was actually three years later, "Sorry, you will meet each other. 
Anyway, this here is also Asahina-san, so try not to think too much about it." 

Nagato looked at Asahina-san (big) with the eyes of an examiner during the national exam paper 
for mathematics. She then looked around the living room before finally fixing her gaze on the 
sexy figure behind me once again and said, 

"Understood." 

She nodded lightly, her hair hardly even flickered. 

As I was following Nagato's gaze, I noticed that place - the special room adjacent to the living 
room, separated with a paper door. 

"Can that be opened?" 

Nagato shook her head towards the room that I was pointing at and said, 

"Negative. The entire structural composition of that room has been frozen in time." 

I felt a sense of both pity and relief at hearing that. 

A warm breath was felt on my neck, it was Asahina-san (big) sighing in relief. She was thinking 
the same as I was, it seems. If she had seen herself sleeping cozily with me in the same 
futon/room, what would Asahina-san (big) have thought? I'd really like to ask, but right now it 
was more important to explain what was going on. 

"Nagato, I'm really sorry for having to keep visiting you so suddenly. Anyway, can you please 
hear our story?" 

How much had the "me" in the adjacent room told her already? The history of the SOS Brigade 
up to Tanabata, was it? Then I'll just have to continue from there and tell her what happened in 
the second half of the year, from the melancholic spring, where I had to put up with Haruhi's 
boredom, to the incessant sighs I made while making her movie. Of course, you were there as 
well, Nagato. You had always come to the rescue. After all these, the world suddenly changed 
when I woke up the day before yesterday. I wanted to know why everyone has lost those 
memories of what happened, which was why I came here with the help of the Emergency Escape 
Program which Nagato had provided. 

It's going to take some time if I go into details, so once again I recited the condensed version 
which I told Haruhi. I skipped the minor details and only mentioned the important context of the 
story. For this girl, that was more than enough. 



" And that's how it was. So here I am once again, thanks to you." 

As evidence was more important than a mere testimony, I took out the crumpled up bookmark 
from the pocket of my jacket. Like handing a spell-charm to a phantom, I handed the bookmark 
over to Nagato. 


Nagato took the bookmark with her finger tips. She looked past the flowery patterns on the 
bookmark and studied the text that was printed on the back like an archaeologist who had just 
dug out an LCD television from a Cretaceous-era bedrock. It seems as though she was going to 
take forever to study those words, so I interrupted her examination, 

"What should I do now?" 

"I, I wish to restore this temporal anomaly," 

Asahina-san's (big) voice sounded so nervous as though she was about to confess her love to the 
man of her dreams. Whenever she's with Nagato, Asahina-san still remained as jittery as usual 
after all these years. That's what I thought, anyway. 

"Nagato-san Can you please assist us? You're the only person who could restore the altered 

time plane to its original state. I beg you " 

Asahina-san (big) put her palms together and closed her eyes as though worshiping a deity. Oh 
Great Goddess Nagato, I too am praying for you to show mercy upon us. Please let me return to 
the club room where I could see Asahina-san and enjoy the tea that she brews, play board games 
with Koizumi, see you sitting like a statue and reading, while Haruhi would always barge into 
the room. That's all I wish for. 


Nagato lifted her gaze from the bookmark, and looked straight into the skies. I could understand 
why Asahina-san would look so nervous, since there was no chance of winning if she's from a 
different faction than Nagato. I mean who in this world could fight even with Nagato? Only 
Haruhi perhaps? 

The perfect acoustics of this high-class apartment meant that there was no echo made. It was so 
quiet that it seemed as though time had stopped. Nagato and I exchanged gazes, and I saw her 
nod a few millimeters. 

"Let me confirm." 

Nagato said. As I was about to ask what she was going to confirm, she closed her eyes. 



Very soon she reopened her eyes and looked at me with her obsidian black eyes, 


"Unable to synchronize." 

She said quickly, and then stared at me. Her expression has changed a bit, and this time it wasn't 
me imagining things. This was the expression she had between spring and summer, even 
Koizumi has noticed this change. Ever since she met us, Nagato's expression has gradually 
changed, though it wasn't the Nagato by winter time. 

Her pale red lips moved again, 

"I am unable to gain access to my temporal variant of that time period, because she has set up a 
protective barrier which selectively blocks my attempts to access." 

Though I didn't understand what that meant, I felt uncomfortable with it. Does that mean there's 
nothing you can do? 

Nagato disregarded my fears and continued, 

"However, I have an idea of the whole situation. It is possible to undergo restoration." 

Nagato softly caressed the words on the bookmark. After that, she began to explain with a voice 
that begins to accumulate words like a snowball, 

"The temporal converter has made full use of Suzumiya Haruhi's ability to create data and altered 
part of the world's data." 

Her familiar calm voice sounded as serene as a music box I had heard when I was a baby and had 
soothed my heart. 

"Therefore, the altered Suzumiya Haruhi does not possess the power to create data. In that 
dimension, the Integrated Data Sentient Entity is non-existent as well." 

I couldn't quite understand, but it sure sounds very serious. Turns out besides myself, everyone, 
including Haruhi, has been given a new set of memories; a girls school became a co-ed, part of 
the students in North High were moved over to that other school, while all their memories have 
been secretly altered; the agent from the 'Organization', Nagato the alien, and Asahina-san the 
time traveler now all lived different lives; not to mention Asakura has returned while everyone in 
North High has no memory of Haruhi at all. Now it seems even Nagato's boss has been erased. 

What a mess. 

"Using the powers stolen from Suzumiya Haruhi, the temporal converter was able to alter data 
concerning past memories in the range of 365 days." 



In other words, everyone's memories from last December - from the time where I came from, 
that is - to December 17th this year has been altered completely. Yet for memories concerning 
Tanabata three years ago - which is now - there was nothing the culprit could do about that. It 
was thanks to Haruhi being able to remember about what happened in Tanabata that I was able to 
come here. Just who's the dummy out there doing the same idiotic stuff that Haruhi would do? 

Nagato's gaze continues to be fixed on me, 

"To restore the world to its original state, one must travel from here to December 18th three 
years from now, and activate the Restoration Program just after the temporal converter has 
executed the alteration." 

So, we'll be traveling to three years in the future next, right? The one who'll be doing the 
restoration would be you, right? 

"I cannot go." 

Why not? 

When Nagato pointed to the guest room, I understood at once. 

"I cannot leave them alone." 

According to Nagato's explanation, in order to allow the time where my other self and Asahina- 
san were sleeping to remain frozen, she cannot perform any time travel herself. She then said in a 
voice as though reporting the time, 

"Activate Emergency Mode." 

"What does that mean?" I was getting a bit anxious. 

"Harmonization." 

I still don't get it. 

Nagato slowly took off her glasses and wrapped them with her hands. As if being hung by an 
unseen thread, the glasses in her palms began to float. If I saw a normal person doing this, I 
would have thought there were some invisible strings attached to that person's fingers. Of course, 
Nagato wouldn't do something so normal. 

Distortion. 

The frame and glass both began to twist and form into a strange whirlpool shape, in an instant 
the pair of glasses has turned into another object. I've seen this shape before, it was a shape that 
would strike fear into the hearts of any human being. 



I hesitantly gave my comment, 

"It looks like a very huge syringe." 

"That is correct." 

A colorless liquid was filled up inside the syringe. Just who was going to get jabbed by that 
thing? 

"This is the Restoration Program used to inject into the temporal converter's body." 

Looking at the sharp needle sticking out from the end of the syringe, I instinctively turned away. 

"Um Isn't there a more reliable way. I'm sorry to say this, but I'm an amateur when it comes 

to this. It'll be pretty disastrous if it were to stab the wrong place." 

Nagato's dark eyes, which glittered like an LCD screen, looked at the syringe she was holding, 
and said, 

"Is that so?" 

She widened her hands again, the syringe once again formed into a whirlpool before morphing 
into another shape. Seeing the shape of this new object, I breathed a sigh of relief. 

"Another object that would create a huge ruckus." 

This time it's a gun, though it had a small nozzle while its material was made of stainless steel. 

Nagato placed the shiny metallic pistol, which looked like a brand new toy-gun onto her palm 
and handed it to me. 

"The chances of this penetrating clothing is very high, but if possible, it is better for you to 
directly shoot the target's skin." 

"What about bullets? Does this thing have real bullets in them?" 

From its appearance, it looked like an aluminum or plastic gun. 

"This is a short-needle gun, the program is infused on the tip of the needle." 

I felt more at ease psychologically with this thing than with a giant syringe. I received the gun 
and was amazed at how light it was. 

"Oh yeah," 

I finally asked the question that I dare not ask a while ago, 



"Who is the culprit? Who's the one that altered the world? If it isn't Haruhi, then who is it? Can 
you tell me?" 

I heard Asahina-san (big) sigh softly. 

Nagato slowly opened her mouth, and without any expression she calmly uttered the name of the 
culprit to me. 


Chapter 5 

Chapter 5 


I still didn't know what to say. Nagato now turned towards Asahina-san (big), 

"Let me give you the space-time coordinates of the target." 

"Oh, sure." 

Asahina-san (big) stuck out her hand like a loyal dog eager to shake hands with its master. 

"Go ahead..." 

Nagato softly tapped her finger on the back of Asahina-san's (big) palm, and then retracted it... 
That's it? Though Asahina-san (big) looked content with it. 

"I understand now, Nagato-san. All we need to do is to go and mend 'her' up, right? That won't 
be hard, since 'she' wouldn't have any powers by then..." 

The time traveler seemed determined as she clutched her fists, the alien then said, 

"Please wait." 

Not wearing any glasses, Nagato said, 

"In this state, you too would be swept into the changes of the space-time continuum. 
Counteractive measures need to be applied. " 


She then stuck her hand out. 

"Your hand.” 

What for? Does she want to shake hands? I obediently stuck out my right hand. Nagato's icy cold 
fingers grabbed my wrist, causing my heartbeat to go faster for a while. 


Nagato suddenly moved her sullen-looking face towards my arm. 

"Whoa!" 

I yelled involuntarily. It was an unavoidable reaction, I guess. Kneeling down, Nagato not only 
touched my wrist softly with her lips, she even revealed her teeth. It was like during the making 
of the movie, when she constantly assaulted Asahina-san and bit her. 

It didn't hurt, actually. It felt like one of those soft unhostile bites Shamisen would make 
whenever I caressed him. Though the canine teeth sinking into my skin felt a bit prickly, like 
being jabbed by something but not hurting at all. Maybe it was because Nagato's saliva contained 
some sort of anesthetic to numb the pain. It was more like being bitten by a mosquito. 



£3 

Kneeling down, Nagato not only touched my wrist softly with her lips, she even revealed her teeth. 
After biting my hand for about five to ten seconds, Nagato slowly lifted her head. 


"Your body surface has been applied with a data-manipulating stealth barrier and protective 
shield," 



Nagato said without even blushing. On the other hand, cupping her mouth with her hands, 
Asahina-san (big) looked rather amazed. I felt a bit numb and looked at my wrist. On it were two 
small holes which looked like vampire bite marks. As I stared at them, the two small holes began 
to heal and disappeared without a trace. Like with Asahina-san during the making of the movie, 
my body was also injected with Nagato's nanomachines. 

"You too." 

Under Nagato's request, terrified Asahina-san stuck out her hand. 

"...It's been a while since you've injected me. It must've been tough on you, back then..." 

"This is my first time giving you an injection." 

"Oh, yes, right. I forgot..." 

Shutting her eyes tightly, the time traveler stuck out her wrist and accepted the alien's kissing 
baptism. The time it took for her to be injected with nanomachines was shorter than mine. Once 
it was over, she began to cough dryly. 

"Well, let's go. Kyon-kun, the real thing starts now." 

Really? The warm-up this time sure felt quite long! Then again, I was only doing my best to 
narrate this for everyone, even though I really didn't want to do this. 

"Thanks." 

I tried to remain calm as I gave thanks to the mistress of the apartment. The silent Nagato 
remained unresponsive. I could not find any form of self-awareness through her expression. Yet 
for some reason, I just felt Nagato, who was standing upright, felt very lonely. Was it really 
because she was lonely as I had speculated? 

"Nagato, I'll see you then. Before Haruhi and I arrive, make sure you wait for us in the Literature 
Club room until then." 

Like a doll being injected with life, the alien-created organic being mechanically nodded her 
head. 

"I will wait." 

Such a sentence was enough to ignite a mysterious flame within my heart. Though it was only as 
bright as a cigarette butt that someone had forgotten to put out. As I was about to figure out 
where that little spark came from, Asahina-san (big) now said, 


Just to prevent you from getting uncomfortable, 



she tightly grabbed my shoulders. 


"Can you please close your eyes?" 

I followed as she instructed me to. Asahina-san (big) seemed to be standing right in front of me, 
holding my hands. 

"Kyon-kun." 

This soft chanting sounded just too pleasant. Was she going to give me a kiss? 

"Here we go." 

Please, go ahead. You can kiss as many times as you like, the more passionate the better. Just as 
I was thinking this... 

The dramatic dizziness had begun. It was good that I had closed my eyes. Even if I had them 
opened, it would probably be pitch-black as though there was a power shortage. I now felt like 
sitting in a roller coaster with my seat -belt taken off; I was no longer sure whether the blood in 
me had left my body or was rushing towards my brain. The sense of floating weightlessness 
continued. Though I had closed my eyes, I still felt dizzy. The fact that I didn't lose 
consciousness was all thanks to the warmth felt through Asahina-san's (big) hands. 

How many minutes has it been already? Or even how many hours? I lost all awareness of time 
and space. I can't hold on much longer. Asahina-san, I feel like throwing up... 

As I was ungraciously trying to look for something that I could puke in... 

"Um... We've arrived." 

The long lost sensation of my feet standing on firm ground was back again. The coldness of the 
ground passed through my socks and into my body. My sense of gravity was back as well. Like 
an illusion, the urge to throw up also suddenly disappeared. 

"You can open your eyes now. Thank goodness, this is the place that Nagato-san had directed 
us... And the time as well." 

I lifted my head and saw glittering in the night sky a bunch of winter constellations. As the air 
was cleaner, the stars were much clearer than in the summer. I turned around and instantly 
recognized the roof of the North High complex looming above the residential housings. 

I looked around me, trying to confirm where I was now. Though it was dark, I couldn't be 
mistaken. I was standing here just a few hours ago. I could still remember Haruhi in her ponytail 
and Koizumi in my PE uniform as well. 

This was where Haruhi and Koizumi had gotten changed. It should be a coincidence, I guess! 



Now then, what time was it? 


Looking at her watch, Asahina-san (big) told me, 

"It's four forty-eight in the morning on the 18th of December. In about five minutes, the world 
will be changed." 

From the moment I hit the "Enter" key on the 20th and traveled back three years in time, the 18th 
would be two days ago. On that day, I went to school as usual, unaware of what was about to 
happen, and I fell into a state of pandemonium as a result of seeing a North High that has 
completely changed. Haruhi has suddenly disappeared, while Asakura had reappeared; and 
Asahina-san couldn't recognize me, while Nagato has become a completely different person 
altogether. 

It all started here, I was now at the time period where the conversion took effect. In other words, 

I could also prevent it from happening, and that was why I was standing here now. 

As I was getting fired up by the intense anticipation 

"Oh no! I forgot to bring my shoes!" 

Asahina-san (big) exclaimed softly. 

As we traveled directly from indoors, naturally we weren't wearing any shoes. As expected from 
Asahina-san, not even the passage of time could wear away her clumsiness. 

"Would Nagato-san take good care of them for me?" 

Her anxiety briefly relieved me of my own nervousness. I'm sure she'd take good care of them. 
After all, she managed to preserve a tanzaku for three years. So she won't lose a pair of shoes so 
easily. You can always go to her apartment and check her cupboard 

As I calmly thought about these, an electric-like sensation went through my body all of a sudden. 

That was because I wasn't wearing any shoes, not to mention having to leap from summer back 
to the freezing winter, so the cold felt even more intense. I immediately thought of putting back 
on the jacket I was holding in my arms; that was when I noticed Asahina-san shivering while 
tightly wrapping herself with her arms. Well, wearing only a long-sleeved blouse and a tight 
mini-skirt in such low temperatures, I suppose it's only natural that she would be freezing like 
hell. 

"Put this on," 

I placed my jacket over her shivering shoulders. Even I was pleased by my own act of chivalry. 
"Oh, thank you. I'm so sorry about that." 



There's no need to apologize, it was nothing. If you hadn't waited for me three years ago, I'd 
never be able to return to here. Just this point alone was enough, even if it meant I had to strip all 
my clothes for you. 

Asahina-san (big) gave me a smile, which perfectly combined sexiness and cuteness, and would 
soften the legs of more than half of the audience, then said seriously, 

"It's almost time." 

Maybe it was good that we forgot to wear our shoes, as we didn't make any sound while walking. 
Despite that, Asahina-san (big) and I still didn't dare to breathe loudly as we walked in small 
steps towards the entrance of North High. We stopped by the corner and like hunters following 
their prey, we only stuck our heads out and stared at the path ahead of us in the dark. 

There weren't a lot of street lamps in this area, though there was one just outside the gate. Only 
the area under the light was illuminated. Though the light was dim, one could still make out 
whoever was standing under that lamp. 

"Here she comes " 

A warm hand landed on my shoulder. I could feel Asahina-san's (big) intense yet sweet breathing 
blow into my ears. Normally, I would be spellbound by it, but I wasn't in the mood right now. 

The space-time converter emerged from the shadows and into the light under the lamp. 

A North High uniform. That was the person Nagato had mentioned. "That person" was the 
culprit who had altered our world, separated the members of the SOS Brigade and turned 
everyone into normal human beings. Only my memories remained, while the memories and 
history of everyone and everything else were totally changed. 

Right now, "that person" had begun making her move. 


I still couldn't rush out yet, I had to wait till everything has changed. That was the advice Nagato 
gave me. I must wait till that person had changed the world completely before I could inject the 
Restoration Program. Otherwise, the history where I activated the Escape Program would never 
have existed. I didn't quite understand what Nagato meant, though Nagato and Asahina-san (big) 
both seemed pretty clear about it. They must be pretty familiar with the flow of time, a person 
like me would never understand. Since I'll never get it, I might as well follow the advice of the 
professionals. That Nagato would never lie, she has always been standing by our side with a 
serious look on her face 


I tightly grabbed the short needle pistol Nagato gave me and waited silently. 



Walking in regular strides, "that person" arrived before the gates of North High. She lifted her 
head to look at the school complex that was shrouded in darkness and stopped. 

Her sailor uniform skirt flickered as the wind blew. 

She didn't seem to notice us. This was all thanks to the nanomachines Nagato injected into us, 
creating a stealth barrier and protective shield on the surface of our bodies. 

"That person" suddenly lifted one arm and made a gesture as though grabbing onto something in 
the air. It didn't look natural, it's as though she was being controlled, but I knew that wasn't the 
case. 

"Amazing..." Asahina-san (big) exclaimed, "That was a powerful time quake. She actually had 
such power... I still find it hard to believe even after I've seen it with my own eyes," 

Even with my own eyes, I still don't see any changes. The night sky was still dark. Yet Asahina- 
san (big) seemed to have witnessed that person use some method to cause a massive change to 
the history of this world. She was from the future after all, so it's not surprising if she could see 
it. 

Asahina-san (big) leaned herself tightly onto me. Originally, we too would have been swamped 
by "that person's" alteration of the world, but we were protected by having Nagato bite us. 

Nagato and Asahina-san (big) were indeed helpful, it seems the course of action I've taken was 
correct. What follows next would be the action needed to resolve this matter, I can't afford to 
screw up at the last hurdle. 

I held my breath when I saw that person putting down her arm and suddenly turn her head in our 
direction. At first I thought she had discovered we were peeking on her, but it turns out she was 
only looking around. 

"Don't worry, she hasn't discovered us. Right now she has been 'reborn.' The time quake... The 
alteration of the world has ended. Kyon-kun, it's our turn to move now," 

Asahina-san (big) said in a stiff and serious tone and gave me the signal. 

I emerged from the darkness and headed towards the school gate. There was no need to hurry, as 
she was not going to run away. As expected, when "that person" noticed me standing under the 
street lamp, she was still standing in front of the school gate. The only change was the expression 
on her face. When I saw the astonished look on her face, I suddenly felt melancholic all of a 
sudden. 

"Hi there," 

I called out to her. As though seeing a friend I haven't met for a long time, I approached her. 


"It's me, we meet again, 



I was able to guess a bit from the tone of Asahina-san's (big) voice. Of the people that I knew, 
besides Haruhi, only one person could make her feel so uneasy. Think about it. After the 18th, 
the secret personal profiles of the SOS Brigade members had suddenly vanished. Yet all their 
personalities remained intact, all save one, whose actions, expressions and mannerism had 
changed completely. 

Under the dim night sky, wearing a North High uniform, the tiny figure stood there not knowing 
what was going on. She didn't seem to understand why she was here, like someone suffering 
from sleepwalking who had suddenly woken up and begun to look around... 

"Nagato," 

I said, 

"This was all your doing, right?" 

Wearing glasses, it was that Nagato. After the 18th, this Nagato Yuki was just the mere 
remaining member of the Literature Club, she was neither an alien or any mysterious entity 
whatsoever, just a very shy bookworm. 

The bespectacled Nagato now looked even more astonished, not understanding what was going 
on, 

"...Why... why... are you here?" 

"I was about to ask you that, do you even know why you're here?" 

"...I'm taking a walk," 

Nagato said uneasily while widening her eyes. The glasses on the girl's face that I was looking at 
reflected the light of the street lamp. I looked at her like that and thought, 

No, it's not like that, Nagato. 

This girl was only feeling tired. Having to spend all day being turned around in circles by 
Haruhi, while busy saving my life, as well as being secretly active in some unknown location 
behind our backs - it was only natural that she would become fatigued by it all. 

A while ago in Nagato's apartment, this was what the Nagato three years ago told us: 

"The erroneous files accumulated in my memory database will trigger an anomalous reaction. It 
can be foreseen that this is unavoidable. On December 18th three years from now, I will 
reconstruct the world. " 


She continued calmly, 



"There are no counter-measures available, because I do not know how such errors could occur." 
But I do. 

I know the reason behind Nagato's unexplicable, abnormal action, and just what those erroneous 
files she had been accumulating were. 

It was the most basic desire. Even for an artificial intelligence run by a complex program, even 
for an android interface who never had such stuff installed, after living for some time, it was 
natural for her to develop such a desire. You'll never understand, but I do. And probably Haruhi 
does as well. 

I continued to observe Nagato's troubled expression unreservedly. Yet the dream girl from the 
Literature Club now looked even more uncomfortable. Seeing how helpless she looked, I can't 
help but yell inside, Nagato! This is what we call emotions! 

It is because you were designed not to have any emotions to begin with, the reaction felt from 
you was far greater. You probably felt like screaming, or going ballistic, or just yelling out loud, 
You stupid girl! I've had enough of you! Right? No, even if she didn't think that way, what she 
did was totally understandable. Her actions can be forgiven, because I was partly responsible, 
after all. I've become too reliant on her, having gotten used to letting Nagato take care of 
everything. I always thought that as long as Nagato was helping, I could switch off my brain. 
What an idiot I was, an even greater idiot than Haruhi. So I had no right to condemn her for this. 

That was why Nagato - this girl here, came up with the silly idea of changing the world. 

So was it an anomalous reaction, or a programming error? 

Boy, you sure are annoying, it's neither of the above. 

This was what Nagato wished for - a normal world like this. 

She only preserved my memories, while altering the memories of everyone else, including 
herself. 

It was now that I finally understood the question that was puzzling me for the last few days. 


Why was I the only one to remain unaffected? 


The answer was simple, it was because the girl had wanted to let me make the choice. 



Is the altered world better? Or is the original one better? Under her well crafted script, the final 
decision rests on me. 


"Damn it," 

To hell with choosing! I never had a choice! 

If I had only wanted the SOS Brigade, then I didn't have to return at all. I could just start over in 
the new world. Haruhi and Koizumi may be studying in another high school, but that wouldn't be 
too much of an obstacle. We'll just treat it as an out-of-school hobby. This mysterious club can 
meet as usual at that coffee shop. Over there, Haruhi would come up with some ridiculous stuff, 
while Koizumi would grin all the time; Asahina-san would look extremely distressed, and I 
would just look away with a scowl on my face... An image of that scene floated in my mind at 
once. The Nagato there would probably look troubled as well, of course she would still quietly 
read her book. Yet still... 

That wouldn't be the SOS Brigade that I knew. Nagato isn't an alien, Asahina-san isn't a time 
traveler from the future, and Koizumi's just a normal person, while Haruhi wouldn't possess any 
extraordinary powers. It would just be a simple, normal and happy club. 

Am I fine with that? Isn't that even better? 

How did I think about it at first? Just what did I make of Haruhi's constant trouble-makings 
beyond the boundaries of common sense? 

What a pain. 

Enough already! 

Are you an idiot!? 

I've had enough with you! 


My heart began to hurt. 

A normal high school student who was forced to take part in many troublesome situations, 
constantly complaining to Haruhi yet still managing to live to tell the tale. That was the role I've 
been playing all along. 

Now then! Yes, Kyon! I'm talking to you! I've got to ask myself a very important question, so 
listen carefully and answer me. You can't refrain from answering. Just a single "yes" or "no" 
would do. Now listen up, here comes the question: 



Don't you find such a weird and extraordinary school life fun? 


Hurry up and answer, Kyon! Think carefully. Well? Can't I ask what you think of this? Hurry up 
and tell me. In a world where I was being turned around in circles by Haruhi; attacked by aliens; 
hearing a time traveler explain wild theories; putting up with the philosophical babble with an 
esper; trapped in a Sealed Dimension where giants go on a rampage; living with a cat that 
speaks; making an incomprehensible leap through time; not to mention having to follow the strict 
rule of not letting Haruhi know all of these, allowing the commander of the SOS Brigade to 
happily continue her pursuit of mysterious events, while completely oblivious that she has made 
a huge mess. 

Don't you find such a world interesting? 

Or did you think that was just too annoying, and had wanted to tell her enough is enough? Since 
you've always thought she was an idiot and had decided to ignore her. Well? Is it true? In other 
words? Is that what you really think? 


That world was hardly interesting at all. 


Are you sure? According to what you said, you find Haruhi in the original world to be very 
annoying. No matter what wild ideas she would come up with, you would always feel 
melancholic. Of course it's natural that you wouldn't find such a world to be interesting. And 
don't tell me it's not true! You know it is. 

Yet, in reality you're secretly enjoying all of this. Because that world is interesting. 

You ask me why I say that? 

Then let me tell you why, 


Didn 't you hit the "Enter" key? 


You know, the one for the Emergency Escape Program that Nagato left for you. 
Are you ready? 



The answer you gave for that question then was a resolute "yes. 


Am I right? 

Our Great Goddess Nagato went far out of her way to create a stable world for you, and you had 
to turn down Her offer. Ever since you met Suzumiya Haruhi back in April, you've taken that 
idiotic world for granted. You actually want to return to a crazy world where aliens, time 
travelers and espers wander freely in school. Why is that? Aren't you the one who was 
complaining all the time about how woeful you are? 

If that were the case, then why didn't you ignore the Escape Program? By choosing to stay in this 
very normal world here, you'll know Haruhi, Asahina-san, Koizumi and Nagato as ordinary high 
school students, and lead a happy life as usual under Haruhi's leadership. Since Haruhi doesn't 
have any powers, you could say goodbye to all those surreal experiences. 

In that world, Haruhi would just be a normal girl who likes to boss people around; Asahina-san 
would no longer have the attribute of being a time traveler from the future, she would just be a 
very cute character; Koizumi would be a normal high school student without any backing from 
some mysterious 'Organization'; and Nagato would just be a timid and humble bookish girl, not 
having to carry any burden or use any amazing powers to observe or protect someone. Oh yeah, 
though most of the time she would remain expressionless, she would still laugh heartily at some 
lame joke, and then blush furiously. Who knows, she could be a person who could slowly open 
herself up if I spend some time with her. 

Such an idyllic life that would be, and yet you have forsaken it. 

Just why is that? 

I'll ask you one last time. Answer me truthfully. 

Do you find Haruhi the troublemaker and the nightmarish events that she causes to be 
interesting ? Hurry up and answer! 

"Of course I do," 

I answered as such, 

"It doesn't take a rocket scientist to realize it was fun. So don't ask me something so trivial 
anymore." 

If someone had actually said they don't find that interesting, then that person would be a 
blithering idiot. His wits would be thirty times dimmer than Haruhi's. 

I mean, there are aliens, time travelers and espers out there! 



Just one alone would be intriguing enough, but to have three sorts of interesting characters all at 
once! With Haruhi included, some powerful force is bound to be triggered. At this rate, I'll never 
be bored. If someone had made any objections to that, I think I'd beat him to a pulp at once. 

"So that's how it is," 

I said to myself. You could say I've finally been enlightened. 

"I still prefer the original world. This world just doesn't suit me. I'm sorry, Nagato. I don't like 
the present you, I prefer the Nagato from before. Besides, I like you better without glasses," 

This Nagato looked at me with a very puzzled face, 

"What are you talking about..." 

The Nagato Yuki I know would never say something like that. 

This girl would have no knowledge of these three days, when I discovered something was wrong 
up to now. That was to be expected, because this Nagato had just been reborn, and so has never 
met me. She would have no memory of looking shocked as I barged into the Literature Club. 

The only memory this Nagato had was the fabricated memory in the library. Besides that, the 
memory we share now all happened since she changed the world a while ago. 

A few months ago, I was trapped in the grey Sealed Dimension with just Haruhi. According to 
Koizumi, that was a new world created by Haruhi. 

Nagato was probably using that power. Somehow she managed to nick or steal that mysterious 
power from Haruhi and used it to create this world. 

That sure was a convenient power. No matter who it is, they will always have the thought of 
wanting to start all over, or wishing that things would go back to where it would be favorable for 
them. 

Yet, a normal person would never be able to achieve such a wish. And it was better that they 
gave up that thought. I myself didn't want to start all over, which was why I returned from the 
Sealed Dimension with Haruhi. 

This incident was caused by the transferral of a god-like omnipotent power from Haruhi to 
Nagato. Haruhi was unaware of it all, while Nagato lost control and went forward to change the 
world. 

"Nagato," 

I walked towards the stiff tiny figure standing there. Nagato remained motionless and stared back 
at me. 



"No matter how many times I have to say this, my answer is the same. Please return everything 
to normal, including you as well. Let's live to fight another day in the club room. As long as you 
give the signal, I'll be there for you. Lately Haruhi hasn't been going astray for no reason now, so 
there's no need for you to use such an unhealthy power to forcefully change the world. Just keep 
everything as it is." 

The eyes under the glasses betray a sense of fear. 


"Kyon-kun..." 


Asahina-san tugged at my sleeve and said, 

"It's useless trying to explain to this Nagato-san. Because even she has changed. This Nagato-san 
is just a normal girl without any powers..." 

I suddenly thought of something. 

The long haired Haruhi in that world called me John. Without any god-like or demon-like 
powers, she was just an ordinary schoolgirl who barged into North High without hesitation. Her 
eyes glittered brightly as she showed great interest in my story about the SOS Brigade, while 
exclaiming, "Sounds like fun!" 

Carrying a wide grin at all times, the Koizumi there said he fancies Haruhi. Wearing my PE 
uniform, the straight A transfer student would show a complicated expression. 

Giving me an invitation to join the Literature Club, this bespectacled Nagato would reminisce 
her fabricated memory together with me. The smile on her face was like the sun rising out of the 
horizon, I can't help but want to see that smile once again. 

I realized I would never see these people again. To be honest, I kind of missed them. It's just that 
their existences were all fabricated. They were not the Haruhi, Koizumi, Nagato and Asahina-san 
I knew. It was a pity I didn't get a chance to say goodbye to them, but I've already made up my 
mind. I want to go back to the Haruhi, Koizumi, Nagato and Asahina-san I knew. 

"I'm sorry." 

I took the gun out and pointed it. Nagato instantly froze on the spot, seeing her reaction, I felt 
extremely criminal. But I've come this far, so there's no point in hesitating. 

"Everything would return to normal very soon. We'll be able to go to many different places 
again, have our Christmas hot pot, and then go to the mansion in the snow mountain. You can be 
the Great Detective this time. A Great Detective that could solve the case just when it has 
occurred, right? That'll be " 


Kyon-kun! Look out... KYAA!! 



As Asahina-san screamed out, someone rammed into my back. Thud! A loud shudder caused me 
to shake, even the shadow under the street lamp was shaking. In that shadow was the silhouette 
of another person. What the? Who was it? 

"I can't let you hurt Nagato-san!" 

I turned my head over my shoulder and saw the pale face of a girl. 

Asakura Ryoko. 

"What the..." 

I couldn't say anything, as I suddenly felt something icy cold jabbed into my abdomen. It was a 
flat object that was thrusted deep into my body. So cold. The sense of disorientation far 
surpassed the sense of pain. Just what was going on? How can this be? Why was Asakura here? 

"Hee hee," 

To me, her grin looked like that of an expressionless mask that has suddenly begun smiling. 
Asakura then backed off from me, pulling out the blood-soaked dagger which she used to stab 
me. 

Losing my balance, I fell to the ground like a spinning top. Standing before me all this time, 
Nagato's legs gave in as she slumped to the ground and said fearfully, 

"Asakura. ..-san?" 

As though greeting someone, Asakura-san waved the Swiss army knife that was drenched in my 
blood and said, 

"Hi, Nagato-san. Don't you worry, as long as I'm here, I'll eliminate anyone that attempts to 
threaten you. That was the reason why I was created." 

Asakura smiled and continued, 

"It is what you have wished for, isn't it?" 

That's a lie. Nagato would never have made such a wish. She's not the sort to kill a bird simply 
because it's not singing as she wants it to. Absolutely not. As Nagato began to act abnormally, 
this Asakura that was re-created was also acting in an abnormal way, basically becoming a 
shadow to Nagato 

Asakura' s shadow slowly landed on my body. Very soon her silhouette blocked out the moon 
from my vision. 



"Allow me to send you on your last journey. As long as you're dead, everything will be fine. It's 
your fault for making Nagato-san suffer in the first place. Does it hurt? I'm sure it does. Better 
enjoy it while it lasts, because that'll probably be the last sensation you'll ever feel," 

The wide dagger was slowly lifted, the tip of the blade was pointed to my heart. I was bleeding 
non-stop. Is this the end? ...I struggled to think as my mind became blurry. I was losing all sense 
of reality. So, Psycho Asakura, is this your mission? To act as back-up to Nagato Yuki... 

The dagger began to move downwards... 

In the blink of an eye, a hand stretched out from one side. 

"...!!!" 

Someone had grabbed the blade of the dagger, and with bare hands as well. 

"Who the...?" 

Bare hands...!? Where have I seen this before? 

My vision was becoming more and more blurry, so I couldn't tell who it was. There's not enough 
light, anyone mind turning up the light? She was standing in front of the bright street lamp, so I 
couldn't see her face properly. All I knew was that it was a short-haired girl... wearing a North 
High uniform.. .not wearing glasses... that's all I could see... Koizumi! ...Where's the guy in charge 
of lighting when you need him!? 

"Huh...!?" 

Exclaiming softly was Nagato, who was sitting on the ground. Her glasses reflected the 
brightness of the street lamp, so I couldn't see her expression clearly. Was it fear? Or was it 
astonishment? 

"Why? But you're...!? Why..." 

Asakura yelled. She seemed to be talking to the girl who caught the blade with her bare hands, 
but the girl remained silent and said nothing. 

Asahina-san sounded as though she was right next to me, 

"I'm so sorry... Kyon-kun, I should have known, but still..." 

"Kyon-kun! Kyon-kun No! You can't!" 

There seems to be two Asahina-sans. One was the adult Asahina-san, while the other was the 
Lolita Asahina-san that I knew. Both had tears all over their faces, and were shaking my body. 
Hey, both of you, that hurts... 



...Huh? What was Asahina-san (small) doing here? While I could still understand the adult 
Asahina-san holding me in her arms and crying, since she came here with me to this time period; 
but just where on earth did the little Asahina-san come from? Ah, I get it now. It's one of those 
illusions, a recollection of one's whole life as one reaches the end of his life... 

Now this was scarier than the feeling of pain and seeing blood flow non-stop out of your body. 

Damn it, I'm about to die. 

As I wallow in regret for not having written a will, I felt someone appear above me. That person 
lifted me and picked up the needle-gun that Nagato made that had dropped to the ground. 

A familiar voice, yet I could not remember whose, spoke, 

"Sorry about that. I have my reasons for not rescuing you right away, but don't hate me for it. 
After all, it was painful for me as well. Anyway, we'll take care of the rest. No, I already know 
what to do now, and you will as well. So go get some sleep for now." 

What's he talking about? And who was he talking to? Do what? And whose taking care of what? 
The images of Asakura's fatal strike, the bespectacled Nagato supporting herself with her arms 
while kneeling on the ground, the two Asahina-sans, and Haruhi in a different school uniform 
had all now been fused together... 


I gradually fell unconscious. 


Chapter 6 

Chapter 6 


Swish, swish 

A swishing sound whisked past my ear. 


As I slowly regained my consciousness from the darkness, my mind began to think groggily. 


Maybe it was a dream. From what I can recall, it seemed like a very interesting dream. Usually 
when you wake up, you would find a dream interesting for about five minutes. But when you 
begin to brush your teeth, the details start to become blurry, and by the time breakfast is ready, 
you'll have forgotten about it completely. By the time you realize it, all that's left in your mind is 
the impression "that sure was an interesting dream." I've already gone through this experience 
many times. 

There were also times when I've had dreams that were hardly interesting, but the details were 
crystal clear, and remained etched in my mind for quite some time. Maybe those were dream-like 
experiences, just like that night when I was trapped in the Sealed Dimension with Haruhi, an 
experience that had really occurred, but had subconsciously been treated as non-existent. 

That was the first thing I thought of when I opened my eyes. 

The ceiling was white; I wasn't in my own room. The translucent orange sunlight dyed the walls, 
which were as white as the ceiling, all sorts of colors. I wondered if it were morning or evening. 

"Oh my." 

For a mind that had just started to become clear, this voice sounded as pleasant as church bells 
would sound to a faithfully religious person. 

"You're finally awake. Seems like you were sleeping quite comfortably." 

I turned my head to find the owner of the voice. There sat the fellow on a chair next to my bed, 
using a kitchen knife to slice the apple in his hand. Swish swish- The apple skin smoothly peeled 
off and hung downwards. 

"Normally I would say good morning, but the sun's setting right now." 

Koizumi Itsuki revealed his gentle smile. 

Koizumi placed the sliced apples into the tray and placed it on the table by the bedside. He then 
took another apple from a paper bag and smiled as he said to me, 

"Thank goodness you've finally woken up. I was really at a loss for what to do. Ah... Your eyes 
look quite confused. Do you recognize me?" 

"I was about to ask you that. Do you know who I am?" 

"What a strange question. Of course I do." 

It was easy to tell which Koizumi this one was just by looking at his uniform. 


He was wearing a navy blue suit and not the black gakuran. 



It was the North High uniform. 


One of my arms was placed outside the blanket. On top hung a bag with some fluid injected into 
it. I looked at that thing and asked, 

"What day is it today?" 

Koizumi revealed an expression that, for him at least, was one of astonishment. 

"Is that the first question you've asked after waking up? It seems like you have an idea of your 
own situation. As for your answer, it is now past five in the afternoon on the 21st of December." 

"Twenty-first huh..." 

"Yes, today is the third day since you went into a coma." 

The third day? Coma? 

"Where is this place?" 

"A private hospital." 

I took a look around. It was an impressive single-bed ward, and I was sleeping in the bed. For me 
to actually check in to a single-bed ward, my family must be quite rich, and I never realized. 

"A friend of my uncle happens to be the warden of this hospital, so you get special treatment 
when you check in here." 

Turns out my family isn't rich after all. 

"Well, thanks to the intervention of the 'Organization,' you can stay here cheaply for a year with 
no questions asked. That said, I'm relieved that it only took you three days to wake up again. No, 
no, it has nothing to do with money. My superiors basically tore me apart for allowing something 
like this to happen to you while under my watch, and I even have to prepare a letter expressing 
my remorse." 

Three days before the 21st would be the 18th. What was I doing on that day? ...Ah, I remember. I 
was near the verge of death due to massive blood loss, and so they sent me to hospital... No wait, 
something wasn't right. 

I anxiously looked at the hospital gown I was wearing, then placed my hand on my right 
abdomen. 

I could feel nothing. Normally a wound would feel numb, but it hardly even itched. It would be 
impossible to recover from such a wound in three days, unless someone patched me up all the 
way from scratch. 



What was the reason for my hospitalization? Because of my coma? 


"So you've forgotten. Well, guess I can't really blame you for it, since you took quite a heavy 
knock to your head." 

I touched my head. All I could feel was my hair, there was no bandage or any protective netting 
on it. 

"What's amazing is that you didn't suffer any external injuries nor any internal bleeding. Your 
brain functions were working normally as well. Even the attending physician was baffled. They 
didn't know what was wrong with you." 

"But...," Koizumi continued, 

"We witnessed how you fell down the flight of stairs. It sure looked horrible back then. To be 
honest, I think our faces all went blue. The sound of you crashing to the ground was so loud that 
I wouldn't have been surprised if you'd fallen unconscious for good. Would you like to know 
what happened?" 

"Go ahead." 

Accordingly, as I was walking down the stairs of the club room complex, maybe I tripped or 
something, I just tumbled downwards and landed with my head on the ground. Wham! I then 
stopped moving. 

The way Koizumi described it sounded as though it really did happen. 

"Things were pretty chaotic after that. We had to call the ambulance and get an unconscious you 
to the hospital. Suzumiya-san's face was all pale, and it was the first time I ever saw her look like 
that. Oh, the one calling the ambulance was Nagato-san. It was her calmness that saved your 
life." 

"How did Asahina-san react?" 

Koizumi shrugged his shoulders and said, 

"She reacted the way you would expect. She grabbed hold of you and cried as she kept calling 
your name." 

"So what time on the 18th did all that happen? Which stairway was it?" 

I fired my questions in quick succession, since the 18th was the day the world changed 
drastically and I went into a state of panic. 

"You even forgot about that as well? It was right after noon, just after the SOS Brigade had 
finished its meeting. It happened just as the five of us were about to go out to buy something." 



Buy something? 


"You don't even have memory of that? Are you sure you're not faking your amnesia?" 

"It doesn't matter, please continue." 

The smile on Koizumi's lips became gentle. 

"The agenda for the meeting, hmm, was for what to do on Christmas Day. Suzumiya-san said 
there was a party for little kids near her place, and the SOS Brigade would make a guest 
performance there. This was so that Asahina-san's Santa costume could be put to good use. She 
would dress up as a gorgeous Santa girl and hand out presents to the kids. This merry event was 
all organized by Suzumiya-san." 

Here we go again; that girl can be so reckless! 

"Yet, it wouldn't be realistic just to have a Santa girl. So Suzumiya-san decided to let one of the 
members dress up as a reindeer and carry Asahina-san into the scene. In the end we had to draw 
lots... Who do you think was the lucky winner? Do you remember now?" 

I have absolutely no recollection of it at all. If one could remember something that doesn't even 
exist in his memories, then he is an impressive liar. He would need to be checked in to another 
hospital. Though it was useless telling Koizumi about this. 

"Never mind, just know that you were the lucky one. As we had to make a reindeer costume for 
you, we had to go out to buy some materials, and it was when we were walking down the stairs 
that you fell." 

"Now that sounds really stupid for me." 

Hearing me say that, Koizumi raised his eyebrows. 

"As you were walking at the back, no one really saw how you fell. We only saw you falling from 
the side like this," Koizumi demonstrated by deliberately letting the apple tumble off his right 
hand before catching it with his left, "You basically tumbled over and over." 

Koizumi continued to peel the apple skin. 

"We quickly rushed towards you, who had become motionless. Suzumiya-san said she felt there 
was someone at the top of the stairs. She saw someone's skirt just at the corner there, but it 
disappeared thereafter. I found it strange as well, so I did some research. At that time, there was 
no one else in the building besides us. Even Nagato-san shook her head. That girl just 
disappeared like a phantom. We've been waiting for you to wake up all this time so we could ask 
you who it was that pushed you..." 



I didn't remember that. At that moment, I was sure that would be the most appropriate answer. It 
was just a normal accident. I was careless, all I could say is tough luck for me. I guess I'll leave it 
at that. 


"Only you came to visit me?" 

Where was Haruhi? I had wanted to ask, but in the end didn't. Yet Koizumi still chuckled and 
said, "You've been looking around all this time. Are you looking for someone? Don't you worry, 
we've been taking turns looking after you. Before you opened your eyes, there was always 
someone by your side. I think it's about time for Asahina-san to arrive." 

I was unsettled by Koizumi's gaze; he looked as though he was meeting a friend that actually 
believed his April Fool's joke, and was lost for words. What was he trying to insinuate? 

"Oh, nothing really. I was just feeling envious of you. You could say those were envious looking 
eyes." 

Why are you saying this to a patient that has knocked his head? 

"While we regular members have to rotate to watch over you, the Commander sees it as part of 
her responsibilities to worry about the safety of her members..." 

Koizumi elegantly peeled off all the skin from the apple, then sculpted it into a rabbit shape 
before placing it on the tray on the bedside table. 

"Suzumiya-san has been here all along, since three days ago she has never left this place." 

I turned towards the other side of the bed where Koizumi was pointing. 


And there she was. 

Wrapped tightly inside a sleeping bag was Haruhi, her mouth slightly agape as she snoozed 
away. 

"We were all worried about you, both her and I." 

He sounded so sad; it felt like some soap opera. 

"You should've seen how distressed Suzumiya-san looked... No, we'll leave that for next time. 
Anyway, isn't there something you need to do right now?" 

Why does everyone like to order me around!? Asahina-san (big) was like that, now even this 
Koizumi... But, I didn't begrudge them. And I couldn't care less if all those apples sliced by 
Koizumi were an offering to some deity. 



Yeah," I said. 


I really felt like drawing on her face. Maybe next time, I'll have all the time to do that. 

I sat up straight and stretched my arm to touch that seemingly angry looking face of hers. 

Her hair wasn't long enough to tie a ponytail yet. I quickly felt nostalgic about her long hair. As 
if to spite me, that short dark hair of hers began to move. 


Haruhi had woken up. 


"...Umm...hmm?" 

Haruhi moaned as she struggled to open her eyes, and by the time she realized who was pinching 
her face... 

"AH!?" 

She tried to leap up at once, but failed miserably as she had forgotten she had zipped herself 
inside the sleeping bag, and so she rolled and crawled about like an inchworm. Eventually she 
managed to get herself free, proceeded to point a finger at me and started cursing, 

"Damn you Kyon! Why couldn't you notify me first before waking me up!? I wasn't even 
mentally prepared!" 

Now that's asking for the impossible. Yet seeing you yelling and cursing was more effective than 
any medicine for me. 

"Haruhi." 

"What?" 

"Wipe your drool." 

Haruhi's face twitched for a while, she quickly rubbed her mouth, and then stared at me with that 
scowl of hers, 

"You... Are you sure you didn't draw anything on my face?" 

I was tempted to. 

"Hmph. Well, don't you have anything to say?" 



I gave her a reply that she would expect, 


"Sorry to make you worry." 

"Well, I'm glad you are. After all, worrying about the well-being of the brigade members is one 
of the responsibilities of a commander!" 

Haruhi's cussing sounded like heavenly singing. At that moment, a soft knock emitted from the 
door. Koizumi instinctively got up and pulled the door open. 

As the third visitor standing outside the door saw me, 

"Ah, ahh, aaahhhh..." 

She proceeded to make a series of frantic sounding noises. Standing there with a vase in her 
hands, was none other than the second year North High schoolgirl with her long hair, a cute 
child-like face, and a slim yet well-grown figure. 

"Hey... Asahina-san, hi there," 

I wasn't sure whether I should say long time no see, for me at least I couldn't tell. 

"Sniff " 

Tears started to trickle from Asahina-san's eyes, 

"Thank goodness... Oh... Thank goodness..." 

I really wanted to embrace her like last time, who knows, Asahina-san was probably thinking the 
same thing. Though she seemed to have forgotten to put down the vase, and only stood there 
crying. 

"Aren't you overreacting a bit? He just knocked his head and fainted. I knew all along that Kyon 
wouldn't sleep like this forever." 

A sense of gratefulness could be heard within Haruhi's voice, and she continued without even 
looking at me, 




£3 

Koizumi began chuckling, Asahina-san's giant tear drops trickled endlessly to the ground, while Haruhi 
turned her face away. At first glance it would seem that she looked mad. 

"As I've already mentioned before, the SOS Brigade works 365 days a year without rest. Nobody 
is allowed to take a day off. I'll never accept a lame excuse like bumping one's head and going 
into a coma for sick leave, absolutely never. Do you understand, Kyon? The price for going 
AWOL for three days is very high. You'll be fined! Not just a regular fine, but an overdue fine 
on top of that as well ! " 

Koizumi began chuckling, Asahina-san's giant tear drops trickled endlessly to the ground, while 
Haruhi turned her face away. At first glance it would seem that she looked mad. 

I looked at them and then nodded my head and shrugged my shoulders, 

"All right then, including the overdue fine, how much do I need to pay in total?" 

Haruhi stared at me, the smile on her face was beaming so brightly that it was hard to believe she 
was mad a while ago. She really is a very simple girl. 

In the end it was decided that I would have to pay the bill for everyone in the coffee shop for 
three consecutive days. As I pondered whether to terminate my existing time deposit... 

"One more thing..." 

There's more? 

"Yup, I still haven't gotten around to compensation for all the trauma you've caused. Ah yes, 
Kyon, for the Christmas party, you can dress up as the reindeer and perform some spectacular 
stunts for us. You have to play until you get all of us laughing! If it's too boring, I'm gonna have 





to kick you to an alternate dimension! You'll need to do that as well for the kids' party. You 
hear!?" 


With a gaze as bright as the light from a prism, Haruhi once again began ordering me about. 


While I was now fully awake, it didn't mean I could get discharged right away. After the doctor 
came to have a look at me, I was sent to be examined on all sorts of machines, it was so 
complicated and annoying that it felt as though they were trying to remake me into a cyborg. 
After spending a whole day on all sorts of body checks, I was going to have to spend the night in 
the ward again. For me, tonight would truly be my first night in the hospital, and since I'd never 
been in a hospital, I might as well experience what it felt like. 

Haruhi, Koizumi, and Asahina-san were just about to leave when my mom and sister came to 
visit me. Haruhi sounded very courteous as she spoke to them, I never knew she could be this 
polite, so it was kind of surprising. 

As I spent time chatting with my mom and sister, my mind was occupied with various thoughts. 

If things continued the way they were, what would've happened next? Nagato, Koizumi, and 
Asahina-san would just be regular human beings without any supernatural background 
whatsoever. Nagato would be a silent bookworm from the Literature Club, Asahina-san would 
be an unreachable beautiful upper classman, while Koizumi would be a normal transfer student 
studying in another school. 

And Haruhi would probably just be an eccentric high school student. 

Perhaps under such settings, an interesting story can be written as well. There would no longer 
be any need to learn about the truth of this world, nor would there be any need to worry about 
any changes caused. It would just be a normal story without any connection to this dysfunctional 
world. 

I probably wouldn't play any role in that story. All I could do there was just peacefully live my 
normal high school life and graduate without incident. 

Which world would I be happier with? 

I think I know the answer to that now. 

It was only in this "present world" could I be happy. Otherwise why would I risk losing my life 
just to come back to this world? 



What about you? Which world would you choose? I'm sure the answer would be pretty obvious. 
Or am I the only one who would think like that? 


After my family went home and the lights in the ward went out, I could only stare at the ceiling. 
As I had nothing better to do, I decided to close my eyes. 

For the past three days, in this world that is, I was told I had spent all that time sleeping. 

In that case... 

If the world had become like that, that meant that it'd been changed. 

This world had already been changed twice. The world that was distorted by Nagato had changed 
once again to the original world as it is now. So who was it that made the second change? 

It couldn't be Haruhi. For those three days, Haruhi didn't have such powers, and the Haruhi of 
this world didn't even know the world had changed. 

Then, who could it be? 

Saving my life by catching Asakura's blade with her bare hands, there could only be one person 
with the ability to do such a thing... 

That would be Nagato. 

Besides, before I lost consciousness, I saw two Asahina-sans. The second one wasn't the adult 
Asahina-san, but my senpai Asahina-san. She was none other than the cute upper classman from 
the future that I was very familiar with. 

There was another person, the mysterious voice that spoke to me near the end. I knew I'd heard 
that voice before. 

I tried to recall who it was, but very quickly I realized I didn't even need to try. 

That was my own voice. 

"I see, so that's how it was," 

In that case... 

I would have to travel back to that time period again. The time would have to be early morning 
on December the 18th, and I had to go with the Asahina-san and Nagato of this time period. 



Only then could the world be restored to its present state. 


Asahina-san would be responsible for bringing me and Nagato back to that time period, while 
Nagato's mission was to amend her past self, who had gone astray for the past three days. 

Though I wouldn't know whether she would use Haruhi's powers or the powers of the Integrated 
Data Sentient Entity. 

I too had a role to play in this as well. 

That's what I thought anyway. If I hadn't heard my own voice speaking back then, I wouldn't be 
here today. In order to preserve my present existence, I would need to go back and say the same 
thing to my past self, 

"Sorry about that. I have my reasons for not rescuing you right away, but don't hate me for it. 
After all, it was painful for me as well. Anyway, we'll take care of the rest. No, I already know 
what to do now, and you will as well. So go get some sleep for now." 

I repeatedly memorized these lines in my head. That's what I said if I recalled correctly. While I 
couldn't guarantee that it'd be correct word for word, the meaning should be the same. 

In place of the me who got stabbed by a dagger, the one using the needle-gun would be my 
destined role. 

As for the reason why I couldn't save my past self from being stabbed by Asakura, I understood 
that as well. From the tone of my future seifs voice, I didn't sound like I ran over in a hurry. I 
must have hidden somewhere nearby before hand. Asahina-san and Nagato also came out cue on 
time. It couldn't be too early, nor could it be too late. I had to wait until I got stabbed by Asakura. 
Why was that? Because of my past self, that was something that had already happened. To quote 
Asahina-san, 

"This is a predetermined event," 


It was now late at night, but I wasn't in the mood to sleep. 

I was waiting. Waiting for what, you ask? Of course I was waiting for the only person among the 
people I knew who had yet to visit me. It'd be a joke if she didn't come. 

I lay in bed and stared at the ceiling all this time. It was only late in the night, when visiting 
hours were long over, that my patience was rewarded. 

The door to the ward slowly opened, the light from the corridor revealed the shadow of a tiny 
figure on the floor. 



Standing there was the figure of the last person to come visit me, Nagato Yuki. 

As usual, Nagato said without any emotion, 

"I am responsible for everything that has happened." 

For some reason, I felt nostalgic at hearing this calm voice. 

"My punishment is currently being assessed." 

I lifted my head and asked, 

"Assessed by whom?" 

"The Integrated Data Sentient Entity." 

Nagato said calmly, as though it had all happened to someone else instead. 

Of course, Nagato had long known she would create a ruckus on the morning of December 18th. 
Because I had gone to visit Nagato three years ago with the adult Asahina-san. She knew all 
along, and she tried her best to prevent it from happening. Yet there was no way to stop the tide. 
Sometimes even if you knew what was about to happen, you just couldn't avoid it. No, it was 
possible to avert it... 

I suddenly thought of the behavior and mannerisms of Nagato after summer, which were slightly 
different from before, 

"But," I interrupted her, "If you knew you were going to go astray three years ago, you could've 
told me any time, couldn't you? Whether it was after the school festival, or before the baseball 
tournament. In that case, I would've been able to take action earlier in that specific time on 
December 18th. Then all that would've needed to be done would be to call everyone out and 
travel back to three years ago again," 

Nagato's expression was as cold as ice, there was hardly a smile, 

"If I had told you beforehand, my astray self would still have been able to erase all your 
memories concerning the incident and change the world. Besides, no one can guarantee that 
something that hasn't happened will ever occur. The best I could do was to keep you in your 
original state when December 18th arrived." 

"Didn't you leave an Escape Program for me? That was more than enough already!" 

As I was thanking her, I began to grow angry. But I wasn't angry at Nagato, neither was I angry 
at myself. 


The blank voice echoed through the walls of the ward, 



"I cannot guarantee that I won't go astray again in the future. As long as I continue to exist, my 
internal errors will continue to accumulate. This is a very dangerous possibility." 


"BULLSHIT! Relay this message for me." 

Hearing me swear, Nagato's head tilted back about two centimeters. She even blinked. 

I reached out and grabbed that little white arm of hers. Nagato did not resist. 

"Tell this to your boss, so listen carefully. If he ever thinks of letting you disappear, then I'm 
going to let all hell break loose. I'm going to get you back, no matter what it takes. I may not 
have any powers, but I'm pretty good at provoking Haruhi," 

I did indeed have a trump card in provoking Haruhi. All I needed to do was tell her, "My name is 
John Smith." 

That's right. While my powers were as good as a useless bum, that idiot Haruhi happened to 
possess enormous powers. Once Nagato disappeared, I would tell everything to that girl until she 
believed me. And then we would embark on our journey to rescue Nagato. Even if Nagato's boss 
hid her away or eliminated her, Haruhi would always think of some way to turn the tables, at 
least I'd make her think of a way. Who knows, Koizumi and Asahina-san may even lend a hand. 
By then, who would give a damn about some Data Entity from some unknown corner of the 
universe!? What difference did it make whether that thing existed or not!? 

Nagato was our friend. And if someone from the SOS Brigade was to go missing, Haruhi would 
never let the matter rest. And it wasn't just Nagato, if Koizumi, or Asahina-san, or I had suddenly 
left, even by our own will, that girl wouldn't give us up so easily. She would resort to anything to 
bring us back. That's Suzumiya Haruhi, the pushy, self-centered, inconsiderate and troublesome 
Queen of the SOS Brigade for you. 

I stared furiously at Nagato, 

"If your boss even tries to do anything funny, then I'll join up with Haruhi and transform the 
world completely. We'll create a world similar to the one in those three days, where you exist but 
the Integrated Data Sentient Entity doesn't. I'm sure they'll be even more disappointed if that 
happens. Observation target? Observation my ass!" 

My anger intensified as I spoke. 

I had no idea how sentient the Integrated Data Entity was, but he should've been pretty smart. He 
was probably one of those that could calculate pi to the hundred millionth decimal point in just 
two seconds and do all sorts of advanced tricks. 

If that was true, then I have to tell him something. 



I'm sure it would be a piece of cake for you guys to give Nagato a more human-like personality. 
Before she became a psychotic killer, Asakura was quite popular in class, not to mention being 
open and friendly. She'd even call out some classmates to go shopping together during holidays. 
If you could create someone like her, why must you set Nagato as a lonely little schoolgirl sitting 
and reading a book all by herself in the Literature Club room? Are you thinking that if her 
personality wasn't set that way, then it wouldn't look like a Literature Club, that she wouldn't 
attract Haruhi's attention? Who made such a decision anyway? 

At this point I noticed I was clutching Nagato's hand strongly. Yet the book-loving Interactive 
Humanoid Interface did not begrudge me at all. 

Nagato simply looked straight at me, and then slowly nodded her head, 

"I will relay the message." 

The calm voice then softly added, 

"Thank you." 


Epilogue 

Epilogue 


I began to contemplate what I should do next. 

The end-of-term assembly was over, and I obtained my term report card from Okabe-sensei, thus 
my high school life for this year had come to an end. 

Today was December 24th. 

The vanished Class 1-9 and its students had all been resurrected, including Koizumi, who didn't 
appear much in this story. Asakura had disappeared from Class 1-5 over half a year ago; 
Taniguchi continued his giddy mood of being in love; the seat behind me had once again been 
occupied by Haruhi; and there was no longer any flu epidemic in class. When I saw Nagato in 
the assembly hall, she wasn't wearing glasses. After the end-of-term assembly, I bumped into the 
sisterly duo of Asahina-san and Tsuruya-san, who waved and greeted me simultaneously. I also 
confirmed this while on my way to school this morning - Kouyouen School had now been 
restored as a prestigious private girl's school for the rich and famous. 


The world had been restored to its original state. 

Yet, the choice to keep this world remained with me. I still had to go back with Nagato and 
Asahina-san - back to the morning of December 18th. If I didn't, the world would never be 
restored. Only by going back could restoration be possible. The thing is I still hadn't decided 
when I should go back. I had yet to explain all this to Asahina-san. She'd probably hear it from 
her future adult self. I did see her in the past few days, but I did not mention a single word to her. 

"Damn!" 

After moaning meaninglessly, I embarked upon the corridor leading to the club room complex. 

Like a racing car, I would have to follow the golden rule of coming back to the starting point. It 
didn't matter whether I was lagging by two or three laps, that wasn't for me to decide anyway. 
The road and the scenery of the first lap and the final lap were the same, yet they carried 
different meanings. All I needed to do was to be careful not to get myself eliminated, and safely 
reach the finishing point so the checkered flag could be waved. 

Forget it, it's pointless trying to say anymore. 

It was no use trying to justify my actions as it was I who made the decision to return to this side. 
It was different to Haruhi's thoughtless rampages, this decision was my own free will, I have thus 
chosen to be spun around meaninglessly. 

In that case, someone needed to carry that responsibility and see things through to the end. 

That person wasn't Nagato, it wasn't Haruhi either, but myself. 

"Serves me right " 

I began to lapse into self-pity and made a cool pose. It didn't matter if someone saw me, since no 
one would bother looking anyway. As I was thinking that way, I exchanged glances with an 
anonymous high school girl who was walking by. Very quickly she turned her eyes away and 
scuttled off. I said softly to her back a greeting which she probably couldn't even hear, 

"Merry Christmas." 

If this were the last episode of a soap opera, shiny white snow crystals would begin falling, and 
the protagonist would catch one in his palm and exclaim, "Ah!" Or something like that. Looks 
like there's no hope of a White Christmas this year. Today's weather sure was surprising, it was 
actually a fine day. 

As a result, I became one of the main characters. A bystander would have already disappeared 
into the far corners of the galaxy by now, and become a relic of the past. 


So, now what? 



It was only now that I realized this. I really didn't know what to do. There's no doubt about it, I 
belong here. I realized that long ago. From the day Haruhi dragged me to the Literature Club 
room and I heard her declare indefinite occupation of the place, I had become part of this bunch 
already. 

Like the other members of the SOS Brigade, I would stand on the side actively protecting this 
world. No one made me do this, I raised my hand out of my own will. 

In that case, there's only one thing I need to do. 

It was easier to get up after falling on something instead of falling flat on the ground, though 
both involve falling. Let me rephrase this, I'll have to go back and pick up my other self who had 
fallen down. From the outcome, I can say it's for my own good. 

I walked up the stairs while focusing on today's upcoming activities. Haruhi and Asahina-san 
were in charge of buying the ingredients. I was spared the pain of being a human shopping cart, 
thanks to my being hospitalized. I didn't think this had anything to do with Haruhi being 
merciful, on the contrary, she's probably keeping the menu secret until the final moment, where 
she'd surprise everyone - that's what I thought anyway. Maybe she'd even use her experience 
from the lone island to hold a cheap and big "Hotpot in the Dark Christmas Party." 

I wondered what ingredients were being used. As Haruhi was the chef, she'd probably prefer 
something stimulating and exciting. Who knows, she may have come up with an experimental 
hotpot, never before seen in the history of human cuisine. Still, no matter what was being boiled 
in the pot, it should be edible once cooked. Even Haruhi wouldn't be dumb enough to put 
something she couldn't digest into the pot. Though it'd be another matter if she had the stomach 
of a monster. Haruhi might be eccentric, but I'm sure her stomach's made of the same stuff as a 
normal human's, right? The only thing beyond human standards would probably be that brain of 
hers. 

However, before having the hotpot party, I still had to dress up in a reindeer costume and provide 
some sort of entertaining performance. You can't even imagine how it feels to have to think of 
what the show would include. 

"Yare yare," 

The sigh of depression that I sealed away just last month, had once again come out of my mouth. 
Now don't be so picky! They may sound the same, but what I say may have different meanings if 
you interpret it differently. 

I gave myself an excuse for reusing this phrase, while jotting a must-do predetermined event 
down in the diary in my head. 


This predetermined event was something I had to do if I wanted to continue staying in this world. 



I have to find a time in the near future to go back and restore the world. 


As I approached the club room, I could smell the food coming to my nose. That was enough to 
make me full. Where did this sense of satisfaction come from? I was supposed to go back to pick 
up the mess some time later, yet I was already feeling so satisfied before I even made my move. 
Now wasn't I a bit too easy to satisfy!? 


Ah well, it's not too bad. Before then, 


There was still time. The one in charge of the operation would be the me in the future, though it 
was neither the me from the distant future, nor the me from the next moment. 

I grabbed the doorknob of the Literature Club room and asked the world a question, 

Hey, mind if you wait for a while? Before I go back to have you restored, can you just wait a 
little longer? 


At least. 


Until after I've tried out Haruhi's hotpot. It shouldn't be too late to go after that, right? 


Author's Notes 


Author's Notes 


In place of my own views, I'm going to write about one of my memories, so please bear with me. 


I had a classmate in sixth grade, who could pretty much be called a genius. He was the leader of 
the class, with a bright mind, good family background, and he was really good at creating a 
cheerful atmosphere for everyone. The reason this extremely popular classmate, with a dazzling 
saintly glow above his head, befriended me was because we shared the same interests. We both 
loved fishing and reading foreign suspense novels. 

Whenever the class needed to be split into teams, I would always end up with him, with him 
being the team leader, of course. Once, when the school was having a festival, each class was 
required to send a representative to perform for the whole grade's leisure. Our team was at a loss 
on what to perform, as our wits came to an end, he would say, "Let's write a play." And he would 
then begin writing the script. I will never forget how hard I laughed and even rolled on the floor 
when I read that script, I never knew something that funny would exist! 

Our performance faithfully kept to his comedic script. After watching our play, the whole sixth 
grade laughed, even the teachers were laughing. Our team eventually won the gold prize, we 
were even given a wooden shield sculpture as a reward. I can still vividly remember what sort of 
character I was playing. 

Later on, we both entered the same junior high. But he would go on to enroll in some high school 
far away, and followed by some university even farther away. 

I kept thinking to myself, could I ever make everyone laugh uncontrollably like he could? I also 
wondered whether his script had changed my life 

That thought had taken root in my mind and became entrenched in my memory. 


Looks like there's still room for more. Might as well write a second reminiscence. 


When I was in high school, I was briefly a member of the Literature Club. As I was also a 
member of another club which I took priority in, I could only go to the Literature Club once a 
week. The Literature Club only met on Mondays anyway, since the only members were myself 
and a girl one year my senior. When I knocked on the door for the first time, I saw her in her 



glasses, looking very knowledgeable. That was the sole member, and also the president of the 
Literature Club. I had completely forgotten what my upper classman had said to me back then, 
she probably never even said a single word. 

After joining for a while, we began to work on a periodical published by the club. I really don't 
feel like recalling just what I wrote in it, I just know that it wasn't novels. I was in charge of the 
cover illustration as well, which I'm not keen on recalling as well. It wasn't possible to fill up the 
pages in the periodical with just the two of us, so sempai called up some of her friends to write 
some articles. Though they were all people I didn't know, one of their names left a deep 
impression on me, to which I still remember to this day. 

As sempai was approaching third year, she decided to quit the club to concentrate on her studies. 
At the same time there were five new members coming in. I wasn't too sure why there were that 
many coming in. I was having so much fun in the other club that I soon stopped going to the 
Literature Club. 

The next time I saw sempai was on her graduation day. I have no recollection of what we said 
then. We probably just had some friendly chatter, and then she faded from my memory. The last 
I saw of her was her back as she walked off. 

As to what that sempai's name was, I could never remember. She probably doesn't remember my 
name as well. But, I'm sure she would still remember that a person like me existed in her club 
back then. 

Because I too remember a person like her existed in the club back then. 


After wasting the whole Author's Notes section on two seemingly fictional and inappropriate 

reminiscences, I sense how low I must have fallen. In perspective, excavating some old funny 
memories was nothing, there were other things that were giving me such a headache that I think 

I'm going to collapse though I realized all things would eventually get sorted out, but it was a 

useless act, kind of like being a football that had fallen into a stream, wondering where the river 
would take it. Might as well put my energy somewhere. 

Finally, I would like to thank the publishers, everyone involved in the publishing of this book, 
and to all readers my most sincere thanks. May we meet again. 


Tanigawa Nagaru 



Suzumiya Haruhi Volume Five: The Rampage 
of Suzumiya Haruhi 





Prologue Flap 




Prologue - Summer 

Prologue - Summer 


These are the events that occurred before the filming of that regrettable film, during my senior 
high school's summer vacation. 

It wasn't until a few days after returning from the detective comedy-of-errors staged on that lone 
island (the “SOS-Brigade Summer Co-ed Trip”) that I experienced a taste of the joy of summer 
vacation. 

This so-called co-ed activity in reality was just a forced kidnapping. Originally, I thought that 
since summer vacation was still young, I should not be getting any flak for sleeping till past noon 
on the first few days, yet that impatient and heartless president decided to depart on day 1 of the 
summer vacation, which ripped apart my seamless plan. Thanks to this woman, by the time my 
body adjusted to "Summer Mode" as it had in past years, there were only a few days left in July. 

It need not be mentioned that I had no will to level the mound of summer vacation homework 
that I carried back from school. It shouldn't be too late to do it in August, so I simply squandered 
away the month of July. Who knew that come August, I would accompany my energetic, spunky 
little sister on a rural visit meeting cousins that we hadn't seen in ages, and head to the mountain, 
or river stream, or the plains, and spend two whole weeks playing? We played till we dropped. I 
will only admit to it if somebody says that I had it coming. 

Naturally, regarding the summer homework that I didn't want to start on, I behaved similar to 
how birds that learn to avoid poisonous insects would: by not even touching it. As a result, not 
even one question was answered while the calendar was littered with records of my endeavors. 
Without noticing, half of August had passed. . . 

"That" seemed to... 


... Have become active in the dark. 


Endless Eight 

Endless Eight 


It felt rather odd. 


I had a bizarre feeling several days after the conclusion of the O-bon Festival. 


At the time, I was sitting in my own living room, tuning in and out of the middle school baseball 
games, which I had little interest in. It was kind of my own fault, being wide awake by afternoon 
and having nothing to do. Even when bored to death, I lacked the strength to face that hill of a 
pile of summer homework, so I continued to kill time by watching T.V. like a slouch. 

What was being broadcast would be the district tourney, which I was neither fated nor qualified 
to take part in, but empathy towards the underdog made me cheer for the side that was losing 
with a score of 0 to 7. Out of the blue, I had a premonition, a feeling that Haruhi was on the 
move. 

I had not seen Haruhi in ages, given that I took my little ol' sister to the countryside (where my 
mom’s family estate is) to spend the summer and to pay respect to the ancestors, and had only 
triumphantly returned the day before. This is a must-go trip every year in our household. 

Besides, during summer vacation, the members of the SOS Brigade had few opportunities to 
meet each other, which meant that not seeing Haruhi was only to be expected. In addition, on day 
one of summer vacation, we had fervently followed Her Excellency to that bizarre lone island, 
and had closed the curtain on that odd and rushed Summer Co-ed event long ago. Even if Haruhi 
were up to something, there wouldn't be a second "overnight trip." Having that one memory for 
the summer of this year should've been enough for her to savor. 

“But then again...” 

As I spoke to myself, for some unknown reason, an event occurred with my silent cell phone 
suddenly - very suddenly - at the exact moment that my finger hooked onto the phone strap and 
pulled it towards my body, which made me suspect that someone might have installed candid 
cameras in my home. 

Just at that moment, right on the dot, the incoming call ringtone began to buzz. Perhaps I have 
the power to predict the future! This thought flashed across my brain, and was immediately 
terminated with my head shaking in denial - too idiotic. 

“What does she want?” 

The number that showed on the call display was the cell number of Suzumiya Haruhi. 

After letting my phone ring three times, I pressed the "talk" button with elegance. As I had an 
idea of what Haruhi might say, I was actually rather surprised at myself. 

“You free today?” 

This was the first sentence that came out of Haruhi. 

"At exactly 2 o'clock, have everybody meet in front of the train station, you definitely must 


come. 



She cut the call off right afterwards. There was no seasonal chitchat nor household greetings, not 
even a confirmation of whether or not it was I at the receiving end. Most importantly, how did 
she know that I had nothing to do today? Despite how it all looks, I still... oh, never mind, I 
really don’t have much to do today. 

The phone rang again. 

“What?” 

“I forgot to mention what you need to bring along.” 

She then quickly went through the list like a machine gun. 

“Also, remember to come with a bike and to bring enough money, over-!” 

The phone hung up. 

I tossed the cell aside and entertained some deep thoughts. Just what is going on? Why is it that I 
have this strange sensation as if all of this is a dream being dragged on? 

A clean whistling blow came from the television. Right as I looked, the enemy team's score - the 
enemy team at least in my mind - was in double digits. The sound of an aluminum bat hitting a 
baseball proclaimed this fact to me with no reservation. 

Summer was coming to an end. 

The chorus of the cicada spilled through the walls of the house, which was sealed shut with the 
AC turned on. 

“She’s impossible.” 

Haruhi. That woman... was making that co-ed trip to that freakish lone island as soon as summer 
started not enough? This summer is hot as hell... just what does she want? I absolutely did not 
want to leave the air-conditioned room. 

Sulk as much as I may, I still meekly headed toward my closet and removed the items she 
requested. 


“Kyon, you’re really slow! Would you please put more effort into it?” 

Suzumiya Haruhi tossed a plastic bag about as she pointed at me with her index finger in 
displeasure. This woman was still in her old form. 

“Mikuru, Yuki, and Koizumi all arrived before I did. You, however, would let the chief wait on 
you... what does that mean? You deserve punishment! Punishment !’ ’ 



I was the last person to show up at our meeting place. I was also fifteen minutes early from the 
meeting time. It seems that everyone knew in advance that Haruhi would call us out, which made 
the gathering lightning fast. Thanks to these gurus, I always have to treat everyone. I've gotten 
used to it and have long since given up. The fact is, I am but an ordinary layman, and arriving 
ahead of these three individuals with unique backgrounds is an impossible mission. 

I paid no attention to Haruhi, and turned to greet the other members unfazed. 

“So sorry for making you all wait.” 

My greeting to two of the lot mattered little, but this other individual I cannot ignore any detail. 
Beneath an elegant hat with ribbons, Asahina Mikuru-san released her warm smile and nodded at 
me. 

“Don’t worry, I just got here myself.” 

Asahina-san’s hands were grabbing onto a basket. The inside of the basket seemed to be filled 
with things that arouse anticipation, which made me start to feel eager for them. I had really 
hoped to be immersed in this pleasant atmosphere forever, but a demon had to come and soil it 
all. 

“Long time no see. Have you been traveling since our last meeting?” 

Koizumi Itsuki revealed those glistening white teeth and raised his thumb at me. Even with 
summer vacation mostly gone, his smiling face still made it seem as if he were secretly scheming 
something. Why couldn’t you go on a tour? Why head to Haruhi in a hurry as soon as she calls 
forth ? That, and coming so very early only makes you more suspicious the more I think about 
it... would saying no to that woman kill you?! 

My vision traveled past that bright pretender’s facade and panned horizontally. Standing over 
there was the non-organic visage of the emotionless Nagato, who was rather like Koizumi’s 
shadow. That presence, wearing the summer uniform and not a drop of sweat, standing squarely 
upright, was one that I could not become any more familiar with. I was beginning to suspect that 
she may not have sweat glands. 


Nagato lifted her head and looked at me as if she were looking at a motionless toy mouse, and 
nodded slightly. Perhaps it was a salutation to me. 

“Everyone is here, let’s go!" 

I asked out of a sense of duty to Haruhi’ s decree: 


“Where to?” 



“Where else but the city swimming pool?” 


I took a look at what I was holding in my right hand: a sport backpack that had a towel and my 
swimwear in it. Oh well, I'd kind of guessed that we’d be going to the pool. 

“Summer should be like summer, and we should be doing summer activities. Only a penguin or 
swan would hit the water in the middle of winter.” 

With those examples, it was to become a matter of habit and not of recreational purposes. I am 
not one of those people that you can appease with a few inappropriate examples of what animals 
do. 

“Time is fleeting, so we must act the moment we have thought of something! This is the once-in- 
a-lifetime North High freshman year’s summer vacation!” 

As usual, Haruhi seemed to have no plan to listen to others' suggestions. Truth be told, other than 
myself, the members didn't even bother to give any suggestions to Haruhi, so the only ideas that 
would go in one of her ears and out the other were mine. Rationally speaking, Haruhi was a tad 
unreasonable... but I sealed my own fate as the only one in the brigade that had any common 
sense. What an accursed fate this is... 

As I analyzed the differences between fate and destiny - 

“Now, let’s head to the pool on bike!” 

Haruhi’ s royal decree was proclaimed. Even with no approval, the act would be forcefully 
enforced. 

After I asked, I found out that even Koizumi was instructed to take a bike along. The trio of 
ladies came on foot. It is worth mentioning that there were only two bicycles and five of us. Just 
what did this woman have in mind? 

Haruhi explained rather happily. 

“Just put two people on one bike and three on the other and voila, problem solved. Koizumi-kun, 
you carry Mikuru-chan. Kyon shall carry Yuki and me.” 

And so, I stepped on my pedals as if I would die. I could still stand the scorching heat that had 
me sweating like a pig, but that racket which was like the adjustment noise coming from a 
broken loudspeaker that loops endlessly from the back of my head was driving me nuts. 

“Kyon! See that? You’ve been overtaken by Koizumi-kun! Pedal faster and catch up to him!” 

My sweat blurred my vision. I could only faintly make out Asahina-san sitting on the side at the 
backseat of Koizumi’s bicycle as he coyly waved at me. Why is it that Koizumi carries the 



beauty and 1 the beast? I almost want to conclude that “unfair” is a word that originates from 
my current situation! 


Both of my legs and my bicycle were struggling to tolerate this crippling overweight. Nagato sat 
at the rear seat, while the one who was standing on the rear pedestals and holding onto my 
shoulders would be Haruhi. It rather looked like a three-person riding trick. Is the SOS brigade 
preparing to become a circus as well? 

Oh yes, before we hit the roads, Haruhi mentioned this: 

“Yuki is diminutive, her weight is featherweight.” 

That sentence had its merit. I have no idea if Nagato set her weight to zero or if she was using 
anti-gravity, but I can say that it felt as if I were only carrying Suzumiya Haruhi. Sigh, I wouldn ’t 
be shocked if Nagato can adjust gravity. I would rather like to find out what she is incapable of 

Although if she could do something about Haruhi’ s weight it would be great, since my back and 
my shoulders could clearly feel the crushing force from that woman. 

Koizumi, peering back by looking around Asahina-san’s head, revealed that hated Mona Lisa 
smile of his, which made me appreciate the unfairness of this world, making me start to crack 
jokes at myself as Balzac did. Dammit! On the return trip, I will definitely fight for a chance to 
carry Asahina-san and enjoy the taste of biking with two! I think undoubtedly that this ladies’ 
bicycle of mine shared the same view. 


The municipal swimming pool’s compliments were very crude. It would be more fitting if the 
name were changed to "The Ghetto Swimming Pool." The reason would be that this facility only 
had a fifty-meter-wide pool and a watering hole the depth of fifteen centimeters for toddlers. 

The only high school students that would come to such a pool are those bored out of their mind, 
such as us. Otherwise, only little kids and their parents - mothers mostly - would be there. I lost 
interest the moment I saw that only brats in their swim rings were in the pool. Looks like the only 
stimulant left for my optic nerves would be Asahina-san... 

“Hmm, the smell of this disinfectant really stinks.” 

Under the sunlight, Haruhi, dressed in a deep red Tankini, had her nose sniffing nonstop with her 
eyes closed. She walked out of the changing room while holding Asahina-san’s hand. Asahina- 
san, holding a basket with the other hand, was in an overall with frills similar to children’s 
swimwear, and Nagato was in a plain no-frills competition swimsuit. Both suits seemed to be 
hand-picked by Haruhi, who paid little attention to her attire but was meticulous to the fashion of 
others (especially Asahina-san). 



“Jump into the water as soon as you find a place to put down our stuff. We’re gonna compete! 
Compete! To see who is the fastest at swimming to the other end of the pool.” 


I lifted my shoulders and (after exchanging a quick glance with Asahina-san) headed off to the 
shade to lay the beach towel and drop the bags. 


The brats in the pool loitered across the surface like abnormal water striders, making it 
impossible to swim across in a straight line. The outcome of this fifty-meter brigade-member 
freestyle in this brutal environment would be an unsurprising win for Nagato. 

This girl, who never seemed to take a breath, dove into the pool right away and advanced 
steadily. She let the water droplets fall freely from her short hair that was sticking to her cheeks 
as she waited patiently over at the other end for our arrival. As expected, Asahina-san was dead 
last. She had to stand to take a breath, and tossed the beach ball that had drifted near her back, 
which led to her taking ten times as long as Nagato to reach the other side. By the time she got 
there, she could barely catch her breath. 

“It’s an outright lie to say that sport relieves stress! Body is body, brain is brain. Body can move 
without thinking while brain cannot work without thinking.” 

Haruhi revealed a look as if she were on the right side and continued, saying: 

“Therefore, let’s do it again. Yuki, this time I am not going to lose to you!” 

Has anyone ever taught you that you can 't use "therefore, " a conjunction, in this usage? Just 
what is this absurdity? You’re just being a sore loser who's trying to win at least once in 
overtime. 

Therefore, I anticipated anxiously that Nagato would detect this tense atmosphere and get out of 
the pool. I’ll let you all duke it out amongst yourselves while I stand on the side as a spectator. I 
bet on Nagato, who wants to bet on Haruhi ? 

Haruhi and Nagato made five trips across the pool and back. Then afterwards, the situation 
turned into the SOS brigade female trio playing ball with the band of elementary school children. 
Koizumi and I, unable to cut in, decided that we might as well sit by the sides and watch them 
play, as there wasn't much else to look at. 

“They’re playing their hearts out.” 

Koizumi looked at them. 

“Feels like Eden, all’s right with the world. Don’t you also think that Suzumiya-san has learned 
to enjoy some of the more conventional pastimes?” 



It sounds as if he’s talking to me, so I'd better answer him. 


“She gives a call out of the blue and hangs up as soon she spilled out everything at once; just 
what part of this form of invitation is normal?” 

“Isn’t there a saying that it’s better to act now than later?” 

“The problem though is why is it that the ‘now’ that woman chooses has never been the best of 
times?” 

The baseball tournament and that ridiculously large cricket appeared in my head. 

Koizumi continued with a smile: 

“That is true, but I would think that this is rather peaceful. Seeing Suzumiya-san laughing so 
heartily, one would say that world-altering events would not be triggered.” 

I wish that would be so. 

I drew a long breath purposefully and add a cold sigh in the end. . . 

Just then, Koizumi showed a peculiar look. It was a look that I was familiar with. That is to say, 
apart from a grin. 

“Hmm?” 

Koizumi’s eyebrows suddenly locked up. 

“What is it?” I asked. 

“Nothing...” 

The normally punctual Koizumi seemed to have had his tongue tied and looked as if he had 
something to say. . . but his smile returned to his face rather quickly. 

“It’s likely that I am worrying too much. We faced waves upon waves of events since spring, 
making me slightly schizophrenic. Ah! They’ve come up.” 

I looked toward where Koizumi was pointing. Haruhi approached as she strode about like an 
Emperor Penguin heading off to feed its children, with a smile plastered all over her face. 
Asahina-san and Nagato caught up as if they were following the runaway princess. 

“It’s about time to eat. The menu today is Asahina-san’s hand-made sandwiches. Street price- 
wise, these will run no lower than five thousand yen. If auctioned online, fetching five hundred 
thousand yen would not be surprising. You should thank me earnestly for letting you eat this 
kind of great stuff.” 



“Thank you very much.” 


I said it with all my heart, although toward Asahina-san. 

Koizumi followed suit after me. 

“We’ve been very blessed.” 

“No no, it’s nothing.” 

Asahina-san ducked her head as she fidgeted her fingers about. 

“I don’t know how they turned out. . . Don’t be too surprised if they taste bad.” 

It would be impossible for these to taste bad. Any food that is carefully prepared by Asahina- 
san’ s golden touch, regardless of when and where it was made and what the materials were, is a 
delicacy of the mortal realm. After all, it boils down to ‘Whodunit’ of the 5W1H (what, who, 
when, why, where, how) at that point. 

As such, I was touched beyond words at being able to enjoy Asahina-san’s hand-made club 
sandwiches, such that I couldn't distinguish whether they tasted bad or not. Basically, anything 
she makes is great. For that matter, even the warm Japanese Tea that she poured forth from her 
thermos, although not a good match for the sandwich, was truly heavenly. Even the sweet drops 
of dew from her body made me feel refreshed. 

Haruhi swept through her share in a moment, as if she were desperate to dissipate the body heat 
she had accumulated. 

“I am going to swim for a bit. Come to swim when you’re all done.” 

After this order, she jumped right back into the pool. 

That woman was remarkable, moving about as if nobody were there when in fact obstacles were 
about in every corner. From the looks of it, it seemed that the theory of human evolution 
undersea was not without merit. I believe that even if Haruhi’ s ancestors were tossed onto the 
surface of the moon with nothing but their garments they would somehow survive. 

Later on, save for Nagato who was dining in a pristine manner, we remaining three drifted 
toward Haruhi as if we were sea dogs hungry for mates. This time around, Haruhi and the group 
of elementary schoolgirls were playing water volleyball together. 

“Mikuru-chan! Hurry up and come here!” 


“Yes.” 



Seconds after nodding her head, Asahina-san was hit by the speeding volleyball of steel from 
Haruhi and sank into the water. 


Koizumi and I emerged from the pool only after an hour had passed as we lay around the shores 
of the pool, crushed by the energetic screeching of toddlers. 

No matter how I look at it, we simply don’t fit in here. Just what is Haruhi thinking, picking of all 
places this municipal pool that barely has any amenities? I'm not asking for water slides, but 
there should be more suitable facilities for us to go to. 

I know that the skin will quickly accumulate melanin under blazing sunlight; as soon as I thought 
of whether or not Nagato was scouting about in order to find a place to sun tan, I saw that small, 
silent girl with short hair sitting perfectly still by the shade where our stuff was, gazing at the sky 
with those sharp eyes of hers. 

It was an image that always seemed to be the same: the vision of Nagato sitting still as a doll, 
constant regardless of her whereabouts. 

“Hmm?” 

A slight sense of perplexity overtook my heart and vanishes in an instant. The bizarre sensation 
had returned. Just for a brief instant, I felt as if Nagato were bored, and I had a sense of deja vu. 
Moreover, I seemed to have some familiarity with what was to come after this. Oh yeah, Haruhi 
will say something along the lines of- 

“These two are members of my brigade. If I say east they dare not say west. Come to them if 
anything comes up.” 

I looked back toward the pool to discover that Haruhi had appeared before us with a horde of 
little girls. 

Asahina-san lay her chin on the surface of the water and shut her eyes, perhaps exhausted from 
playing with the hyperactive elementary school kids. The brimming Haruhi, even more carefree 
than those elementary kids, stared at the glimmering stars and said this to Koizumi and me: 

“Join the fun! We’re gonna play water polo and we need two guys as goalkeepers.” 

Just as I think of asking what the game's like and what the rules are, my sense of familiarity 
vanishes. 

“...Umm.” 

I gave a half-assed reply and stood up. Koizumi joined in with the children with a smile on his 
face. 



That sense of familiarity had totally disappeared. 

Umm, never mind. This sort of thing happens. I often feel as if I’ve seen certain scenes from 
some dreams normally, plus I'd been to this pool when I was a kid. It might've been that my 
memories back then were overlapping with the present. Otherwise, it would seem that my brain’s 
data transmission program had developed a minor glitch. 

I pushed aside a dolphin shaped swim ring as I hurried after the beach ball that flew away from a 
head-on impact. 


We left the municipal pool only after we were dead tired. Even on the trip back, I still had to 
repeat that three-rider trick as Koizumi kept up his Gemini tale of youth. This undoubtedly 
makes one’s heart tremble with no end. 

Asahina-san sat at the back of the seat with the elegance of a lady, with her white skin 
amplifying those flushes on her face. My fledgling heart rumbled all the more when one of her 
hands wrapped around the waist of the rider. If I were to stick my ears to them, I just might have 
heard the howls of the wind that brushes through the barren ground and slices across the sky. 

Following Haruhi’s directions, I turned left and right on my bicycle and ended up at the station 
where we met. 

A/7/7, I see. I have to treat everyone out of my own pocket. 

As soon as we found our seats at the cafe, I placed a small cold towel atop my head and 
collapsed on the chair. Meanwhile- 

“I have decided on a plan for our next activities, so let's take a look.” 

Haruhi put a sheet of paper down cautiously and pointed at it with her index finger for us. This 
was a sheet of A4 torn from a notebook. 

“What is this for?” 

Haruhi replied slightly proudly. 

“This is a plan on how to spend the few remaining days of summer.” 

“Whose plan?” 

“Ours, it’s the special SOS Brigade summer activities version!” 


Haruhi finished her cold drink in one gulp and continued after requesting a refill: 



“I suddenly realized that there’s only two weeks left before summer is over, which shocks me. 
This is terrible! There are still so many things that should’ve been done, and we’ve got so little 
time now. As such, we have to make up for it right this instant. 


The following lines of text were present on Haruhi’s hand- written proposal. 

o Must-do Even ts of Summer Vacation 

■ Summer Co-ed. 

■ Pool. 

■ O-bon. 

■ Fireworks Show. 

■ Part-time Job. 

■ Stargazing. 

■ Shooting Practice. 

■ Bug Catching. 

■ Test of Courage. 

■ Other. 


Summer fever. 

Most likely, some kind of tropical disease was spreading from some unknown jungle and had 
started to infect humans through media such as mosquitoes. I felt rather sad for the "medium" 
that had bitten Haruhi. Perhaps it died of food poisoning. 

The "Summer Co-ed" and "Pool" had already been crossed off the list, probably because they 
had long been done. 

Of course, that also meant that Suzumiya Haruhi would have every single one of these activities 
done within two weeks. Then there was the "Other" field. I wonder if it means that Haruhi still 
has things planned? 



“I can only think of this much. I will add to this when it comes to me. Mikuru-chan, anything 
you want to do?” 

“Umm...” 

I looked at Asahina-san, who was deep in thought, trying to hint a "PASS." Oh, please, don’t 
come up with something extreme. 

“I would like to catch goldfish.” 

“OK!” 

Haruhi took out her pen and appended that to the list. 

Afterwards, she asked both Koizumi and Nagato for input. Nagato shook her head a little, while 
Koizumi refused with a smile. They have done the right thing. 

“Sorry, may I take a look at this?” 

Koizumi finished his iced coffee au lait in a hurry, and gave the list a thorough read-through. He 
seemed to be thinking of something, but was slightly lost in it. . . wonder what he’s thinking 
about. 

Nagato was sipping her cola through her straw for some time - 
“Thank you.” 

Koizumi put the so-called plan back onto the table and kept his thoughts going. Just what is he 
up to? 

“We’ll start tomorrow. Let's meet in front of the station! Anyone know a place nearby where an 
O-bon festival is going to take place? A fireworks festival is fine as well.” 

Couldn ’t you at least do your research before proceeding? 

“I will look into it.” 

Just like Koizumi to clean up after her. 

“I will contact Suzumiya-san as soon as I have obtained the information. We are after O-bon and 
fireworks festival locations for now, right?” 

“Don’t forget about goldfish catching, Koizumi-kun. This is Mikuru-chan’ s only request.” 

“Then I will do what I can to find a location where O-bon and the Summer Festival are held 
together.” 



“Umm, please do. I’ll leave this to you then, Koizumi-kun.” 


Haruhi finished off her ice cream that was floating about in her cup of ice coffee, and folded up 
her note carefully as if it were some kind of treasure map. 

Just as I was paying for the bill, Haruhi rushed out of the store like a marathon runner just before 
the competition. Maybe she was just storing energy and waiting until tomorrow to spend it. I 
hoped that she would burn it through at once and not make it last, which would save us all the 
trouble of cleaning up afterwards. 

The four members dismissed themselves, and as everyone started to part ways, I called for the 
shadow-like one of them. 

“Nagato.” 

The organic intelligent android, dressed in summer sailor outfit, turned around to answer my call. 


She looked at me emotionlessly. You couldn't tell if she was denying or affirming from those 
widened, inorganic pupils of hers on her white face. 

There was something odd about it. Although Nagato had always been emotionless, I still felt that 
there was something odd about Nagato today, but I couldn’t quite put a finger on exactly what. 

“Nothing...” 

It was rather awkward to call her, and then realize that I didn't have much to say to her. 

“It’s nothing. How are you lately? Is everything all right?” 

I really couldn't think of a thing to say, so I was left with chitchat to break the ice. 

Nagato’s eyes blinked, and slightly, so slightly that you'd have to use a protractor to the measure 
the angle, she nodded. 

“I am fine.” 

“That’s good.” 

“Really.” 

Her face, which seemed to be more or less set with little motion, was somehow more concrete. . . 
No, on the contrary, it seemed to have softened. . . Why would I have such contradictory 
thoughts? I don’t get it. Maybe human perception is just that bad? It's best to just let it slip. 



In the end, since I couldn’t think of anything to say, I came up with some parting words on the 
spot and left as if I were running away from Nagato. 

I felt that it was probably for the best for some reason. I rode my bicycle home, hit the showers 
as soon as I finished my dinner, turned on the T.V. when I got out of the bath, and fell asleep 
while watching T.V. 

Haruhi’s call woke me from my lazy sleep once more the next morning. 

The O-bon festival location had been found. It was to take place that night, and it was at the civic 
stadium in the city. . . according to her. 

How could it all work out so well? Just as I was feeling amazed at how everything fit together, 
Haruhi continued, saying: 

“We’re going to buy yukata together.” 

Sounds like it’s time for morning exercise class to start. 

“Originally I wanted everyone to wear it at Tanabata but I forgot about it. I really don’t know 
what was wrong with me. Luckily, I am saved thanks to the fact that Japan has the tradition of 
wearing yukata for two months.” 

Who’s saved? 

Just to add, it was morning then. I was just thinking that meeting by dusk would be fine, but 
Haruhi had me up so early just for this matter. So, just as it was the day before, the majestic 
Haruhi, the pitiful Asahina-san, the silent Nagato, and the merry Koizumi all headed to the old 
meeting place by the train station. 

“Both Mikuru-chan and Yuki have no yukata while I forgot mine. I saw a place when I walked 
past the shopping district where they were selling the set complete with slippers, so we’ll just go 
there later and get them.” 

I looked to Asahina-san and Nagato, wondering how they might look in yukata. 

Sigh, it's summer. 

Koizumi and I would do with just casuals. We're guys; merely wearing yukata while in a hotel 
for the heck of it is enough. Besides, men aren't that attractive in them anyway. 

"Yea, Koizumi-kun in a yukata would be a great fit, but as for you..." 

Haruhi looked at me from head to toe with a grimace. 


All right, off we go. 



She then bossed us around with her self-prepared brigade fan. 
"Destination: yukata shop!" 


Haruhi dashed headlong into the volume store, single-mindedly picked out the patterns for 
Asahina-san and Nagato, and then rushed into the dressing room. 

The ladies (save Nagato) had no idea how to put on the yukata, so they asked the saleswomen for 
help, which ate up a lot of time. Koizumi and I idled about outside the display filled with 
women's fashion for a long time before the trio finally showed up in front of the dressing mirror. 

Haruhi's yukata pattern was made up of delicate Fuso (Hibiscus), Asahina-san's had goldfish of 
all colors, while Nagato's had run-of-the-mill geometric patterns. I didn't know which to look at 
first, as each of the three dazzled differently. 

The clerks glanced at Koizumi and me, perhaps guessing at "who's the boyfriend to which of the 
three ladies?" A pity, for it's neither. Leaving Koizumi aside for the time being, I was just a tag- 
along. Perhaps I should've felt some regret at the moment over this. 

Never mind that. So long as I see the yukata version of Asahina-san, I have no more regrets for 
my lifetime. Haruhi and Nagato each fit their attire and had their flair, but I won't be able to do 
them justice if I try to describe their look. 

"Mikuru-chan, you..." 

Haruhi's exhilaration after seeing the yukata version of Asahina-san was no less than mine. 

"You look sooo cute! I am impressed with myself, having an eye for fashion! You in a yukata 
can swoon 95% of all men!" 

What's with the 5%? 

"Cause a real GAY will not be swayed no matter how cute a girl is. Please remember this: out of 
a hundred men, five are GAY. " 

I don't see a point of keeping that in my mind. 

Asahina-san didn't seem to deny her own cuteness as she kept turning about in front of the 
mirror, judging her own attire. 


"So this is the traditional wardrobe of this country. Although a bit tight in the chest, it does look 
pretty good..." 



This would be the most formal and fitting garment out of all the costumes that Haruhi had forced 
onto Asahina-san. It was not nearly as revealing as the bunny-suit, nor was it as provoking as the 
maid uniform, for this was a normal outfit for the season, a symbol of summer, which nobody 
would leer at. This set matched her perfectly. It felt as if I were looking at my sister in yukata, 
aside from the overly voluptuous bust. However, it's all right as long as it's cute. Asahina-san 
radiated a divine glow that seemed able to purify the sins of this world. I would stand up for her 
even if she was the mastermind behind a bank robbery, whereas if it were Haruhi then I'm not 
too sure... 


Thanks to Haruhi calling us out early (the woman had no time management skill), there was still 
a ton of time left before the festival started. As such, we ended up killing time by standing 
around at the park outside the station. Haruhi "helped" to tie Nagato's and Asahina-san's hair. 

The ever-changing hairstyles on the two girls sitting as still as marionettes were so awe-inspiring 
that I would like to have taken sequential shots with a camera in commemoration. It wasn't until 
sundown that we lined up at the stadium. 

The O-bon festival ground, already busy before dusk, was suddenly flocked with people coming 
in waves from out of nowhere. It's unbelievable how such a crowd can be gathered. 

"Waa!" 

Asahina-san exclaimed without reservation. 


Nagato remained emotionless regardless of the event. 

The feeling crept back at me, but I hadn't seen such live events often. Why is it that I think I've 
seen this before... this is the O-bon dance of all things! 

"Hmm?" 

It hit me again; this deja vu came to me like a headache. I kept thinking that I'd been there 
recently, even though I was telling myself that I had not been in there for the longest time. It's all 
so familiar... the platform in the center of the stadium, the outlying festival stands littered 
about... 

But just as I was about to catch the tattered strands of the spider web dangling in the air, the 
feeling vanished. 


I heard Haruhi's voice. 



"Here's the goldfish stand that you've been so excited about. Just keep scooping. You get two 
hundred extra points if you can get the one with black exposed eyes." 

Haruhi dragged Asahina-san's hand toward the goldfish tank over the stand after making up 
bogus rules on the spot. 

"Let's join in. Let's see who scoops up more!" 

I vetoed Koizumi, the game addict's proposal. Even if I were to bring the goldfish home, I had no 
tank to keep it in. I had more interest in the finger-licking food stands with their tempting aroma 
that surrounded us. 

"Nagato, want to grab a bite?" 

Her expressionless eyes focused on me for the longest time, and gradually shifted their focus. 

The mask stand was in her direct line of vision. It's hard to understand what the girl likes. 

"Never mind, let's just take a look around." 

The loudspeaker played the easy-listening type of festival music like it was chanting. Lured by 
the music, I led Nagato to the mask stand as I felt the slightly overbearing "glow" of Koizumi. 


"Although it's a great haul I don't need this many, just taking one is ok. Mikuru-chan didn't get 
any so this is hers." 

A plastic bag dangling by a string was held in Asahina-san's hand. Within the bag was an orange 
standard-fare goldfish, swimming about in a carefree fashion. Every move of Asahina-san, like 
grabbing on the plastic rope, was absolutely adorable. When I saw her other hand clutching a 
caramel apple stick, I decided to get one for my little'ol sister. Making her giddy once in a while 
can't hurt. 

Haruhi, on the other hand, kept playing around with a water ball with her left hand, and talked to 
us while her right was holding on a plate full of Takoyaki. 

"One each only." 

Showing this kind of generosity to us... in this fashion. Just as I was enjoying the Takoyaki 
dipped in sauce - 

"Eh? Yuki, how'd you get the mask?" 


It was purchased. 



Nagato muttered as she stared at the toothpick with the Takoyaki on it. On a side of her head was 
the mask of silver Ultraman from the Kingdom of Light. What generation is beyond me, but I 
figure the wavelength must overlap somewhat for this alien, since this of all masks is what made 
her bring out her frog-mouth style coffer from her sleeve. 



The ever-changing hairstyles on the two girls sitting as still as marionettes were so awe-inspiring that I 
would like to have taken seguential shots with a camera in commemoration. 

With everything Nagato's done for me, I felt that I should at least buy such a trinket for her, but 
Nagato refused and paid out of her own pocket. Hmm... What is her source of income? 

The four corners of the platform were surrounded by women and children dancing to the tune of 
Tanko-bushi. It looked as if they were members of the women and children society, as the typical 
laymen coming here for the show won't really do it and, of course, we wouldn't as well. 


Asahina-san's eyes were transfixed upon the group of dancers. She looked as if she were 
witnessing aborigines welcoming her into an unknown part of the new world. 

“Wa...aah” 

She exclaimed softly. Is the tradition of o -bon dance lost in the future? 

Under the leadership of Haruhi, our motley crew toured the festival together. She made us her 
peons, saying, “Let’s eat that,” then, “Let’s try this.” Haruhi was enjoying herself, and so it 
seemed was Asahina-san, which made me happy. I couldn't tell if Nagato was having a good 
time, and I don’t give a damn about Koizumi’s experiences. 



Koizumi, from time to time, would fall into this peculiar silence and display his smile without 
warning. . . No doubt that his emotions were anything but stable as of late. Perhaps this is the fate 
that all members of the SOS Brigade must face. 


When it comes to summer vacation, it's gotta be a grand holiday. 


I would’ve gotten my ticket’s worth just seeing the yukata-clad trio. 

That's why, the moment Haruhi suggested: 

"Let's go shoot up some fireworks, fireworks! It's rare for us to come out in yukata like this so 
we might as well get all of this done today!" 

This motion received unanimous approval from the SOS Brigade. We purchased those crude 
fireworks that you give to kids, and headed to the riverbank under a night sky so murky that you 
could only make out the moon and Mars. We followed Haruhi, who grabbed herself a cheap 
lighter and a Polaroid camera en-route. Haruhi seemed to be in higher spirits than usual. For 
some reason, the phrase "you are what you wear" flashed through my mind. 

One would pay no heed to Haruhi's terrible broad stepping postures upon seeing her swiveling 
hair tied up behind her head. Evidently, being headstrong is Haruhi's strength. 

An hour later, I had taken countless photos. There was Asahina-san holding the angel stick with 
her marble eyes wide open, Haruhi crouching about with both her hands holding the dragon 
cannon, and Nagato transfixed upon the swerving snake. The SOS Brigade's summer activity 
came to an end with this finale. 

Koizumi picked up some shrapnel that had fallen into the stream and put it in a convenience 
store plastic bag. Haruhi gave him a look and put a finger to her lips- 

“Then tomorrow will be bug-catching.” 

She was determined to exhaust every last item on that itinerary of events. 

“Haruhi, I'm not against it, but did you finish your summer assignments?” 

I really had no right to say this, since I hadn't even picked up my pen yet. Haruhi suddenly 
looked dumbfounded. 



“What the hell are you talking about? I only need three days tops to get those done, piece of 
cake. I had them done by July, actually. Get rid of the tedious stuff so you can really enjoy 
yourself, that’s the way to really enjoy summer!” 

When Haruhi gets serious, that little mound of work is nothing. Why did God give her such a 
brilliant brain? This shows that God isn't fair. 

Haruhi handed her order out to us with a relentless glare: 

“Hear this? Tomorrow, everyone’s gotta bring along a bug catching net and a cage. Oh yeah, 
let’s see who’s gonna catch the most. Whoever wins gets to be the leader for a day.” 

I didn’t care for that title. Wait. Is it ok as long as it’s bugs? 

“Hmm... cicadas only! That’s right. This is the SOS Brigade Cicada Hunt Competition. As for 
rules. . . No type restriction, one is one and wins by the numbers.” 

Haruhi, who only needed her own approval, started to fool around with the Brigade fan as if it 
were a net. Net and cages... I should still have a set in the storage room somewhere in my home. 

With that, when I finally returned home, I realized that I'd forgotten to get myself an apple stick. 


For some reason, although I'd nailed a Teru teru bozu just to make sure it would be pouring, it 
had to be totally clear in the down the day after. No doubt the cicadas would be jittery over the 
highest temperature in the summer. 

"Cicadas are edible right? It might taste real good if we fry them into tempura. Ahh, this 
suddenly occurs to me, tempura's great because of the flour coating maybe? If it is, then cicada 
tempura must be tasty." 

You try that yourself! 

The scene of five high school students of uneven height heading off together with a net and a 
cage each to go after bugs can only be described as somewhat bizarre. 

We gathered ourselves before noon. In order to search for greens, we found ourselves at North 
High, since the school is on top of a hill that has trees but not much else. This makes it a good 
place for bugs, as they operate in forests or woods. From the looks of it, even if I live in a fairly 
busy city, it's not so dismal that cicadas won't cry. 


Trunk after trunk was packed with the screeching bugs as if there were an infestation of cicadas. 
It was grab-as-you-go there. Asahina-san found a harvest with just a couple of furious swipes 



with her net. This shows that cicadas there did not realize that humans are the animal to watch 
for most of all. Fine, then, today is shock therapy time. 

I bent to look at the still cicadas within the cage after filling it in no time. I have no idea how 
many years they'd stayed underground, but no doubt they did not toil to maturity just to be fried 
by Haruhi. I felt a sense of melancholy from the weakening cries of the summer bugs, and the sin 
of deceit crept in on me. I apologize for destroying your homes with paved cement roads. I hope 
you can somewhat forgive mankind's insolence. 

I knew that it was impossible for Haruhi to hear my mental soliloquy, but that woman said the 
following: 

"The spirit of catch-and-release is still much needed. Let's spare 'em. Maybe in the future they'll 
return the favor." 

I felt weak the moment I imagine man-sized cicadas knocking at our doors. If there were insects 
that would return the favor after witnessing us capturing their brethren and setting them free later 
on, they would be as idiotic as insects. If they came for revenge, I think they would actually be 
smarter. 

Haruhi opened the cage and shook it left and right. 

"Go! Go back to the mountains!" 

Jijiji- the cicadas crowded and pushed inside the cage as they scrambled to fly out. Asahina let 
out a cute cry as she knelt down. The swarm twirled around her for quite some time and swept 
past the still head of Nagato, following a spiral pattern or in a line as they disappeared into a sky 
dyed red from the setting sun. 

I opened the cage like Haruhi did. I felt as if I were Pandora, who opened that box delivered by 
Hermes accidentally. The thought of keeping at least one cicada hit me only after all the cicadas 
had vanished into thin air. 


The event for the following day was part-time work. 

Haruhi somehow managed to find work, and made sure that we all had a share. That one-day 
employment was - 

"W... Welcome!" 

Asahina-san seemed to squeeze out the greeting. 


C'mon, everybody line up! Ahhahh... Don't push! 



The job that Haruhi stuffed down our throats was to attract customers for an annual sale at a local 
supermarket. 

We met without a clue as to what we were in for and suited up in the uniforms that Haruhi 
handed to us. After that, we had been carrying out promotion activities since ten in the morning. 

By the way, all of us were stuffed into costumes. 

Why is this happening... Why must I be embarrassed like this? Asahina-san's duty is to cheer 
people up with hundreds of getups... Koizumi, Nagato, what is with you two? Would it kill you to 
raise even the slightest of objections? Why would you simply bear that woman's whims? 

"Plese line upu~ Thank juu for your cooperation!" 

Hearing Asahina-san's thick tongued voice beneath a green uniform that covered her body only 
made me sweat like a pig. 

We were all dressed up as frogs. To be more precise, frogs that give out balloons to children. 

This supermarket does this kind of thing every year for its anniversary — handing out free 
balloons to the infants that accompany the customers. 

Kids are kids. They squirm in excitement after receiving this kind of petty gift which is designed 
to fool them. Hey, dumb kid over there, take a balloon. It's a red balloon, just take it. 

Asahina-san the tree frog proved the most popular. As an aside, Koizumi was a golden frog and I 
was a toad (What else would I be?). Nagato the amazon hornfrog operated the pump that filled 
up the balloons, which the three of us handed out. Haruhi, however, sat in the shade in casual 
attire. If we were all to be paid on the same wage, I would be lashing out right about now. 

It appeared that the owner of the store was an acquaintance of Haruhi. The fellow greeted her 
with a smile whenever she called out "uncle-" oh-so-sweetly. 

The balloons were all handed out within two hours. Save Haruhi, all of us shed our exoskeletons 
to vent the heat inside the rest area that looked like a storage room. At that moment, I understood 
the feelings of snakes that shed their skin. It is a rarity for me to experience that sigh of relief. 

Nagato took off the frog suit quickly, while Asahina-san and Koizumi were totally dampened 
and literally shook off their suits. They remained silent for a long while. 

"Fuu~" 

I didn't even have the energy to enjoy Asahina-san wearing a thin sport vest and a short skirt as 
she sat down. 


Good job!- 



I had a sudden urge to bury Haruhi from head to toe in a scorching desert when she appeared 
licking an ice cream. 

Evidently, our wages had been pledged to the treefrog suit. I realized that Haruhi had the suit in 
her mind all along when she calmly announced this news. I should have seen it as she squeezed 
the empty suit under her armpit with an expression like that of a knight awarded with thousands 
of gold bullion. The wages never existed. 

"What's so bad about this? I've really wanted it. Now this dream has come true. Uncle says that 
he'll hand this to me on the account of Mikuru-chan. Mikuru-chan, I will hand you a self-made 
badge. You'll have to wait though since I haven't made it yet." 

Thus, one more piece of garbage could be added to Asahina-san's possessions. I imagined that 
junk must be a cuff that has "badge" written on it. 



Thus, one more piece of garbage could be added to Asahina-san's possessions. I imagined that junk must 
be a cuff that has "badge" written on it. 

However- 

"This frog is going to be a keepsake in the Brigade classroom. Mikuru-chan, you can wear this 
whenever you like. I grant you this privilege!" 

I couldn't show my anger because I was just so suffused with rage from Haruhi's expressions at 
that moment. 


I was bushed. Nonstop activities, first with swimming, then bug catching, and finally the sauna 
bath in costumes, would drive the healthiest of high school males to the ground. 


This is why I asked for nothing more than sound sleep for the night. I could still feel the peace 
from Arcadia when the mobile phone rang. 


There is nothing more infuriating than a pointless midnight call that disturbs your sleep. 

Whoever makes calls during the heat of the night must lack common sense, and out of everyone I 
know, only Haruhi lacks common sense. I really wanted to scream at that woman for waking me 
from my dazed sleep. To my surprise, when I pressed the talk button, the voice that came 
through belonged to - 

"...Uuu(cry)... Uuu(soft cry)..." 

The cry of a woman gave me goosebumps. My senses returned to me suddenly. Shoot, wrong 
number. 

Just as I was about to toss my phone - 


"Kyon-kun..." 


Although the throat was choked up, I could still identity the voice of Asahina-san. 

Goosebumps broke out once more, but it had a different meaning this time. 

"Hello, is that Asahina-san?" 

Was she bidding me farewell with this call? Kaguya-hime needed to return to the Lunar palace? I 
was well aware that "here" was but a temporary dwelling for Asahina-san and that she must 
return to the future someday. Would the time be now? I would not agree with simply uttering a 
farewell before leaving. 

Although the woman on the other end of the line was - 

"It's me... Uwaaa, it's horrible... Uuu... Ugu... If this keeps up... I... Uwaaa..." 

I couldn't understand a word that was coming from her. She was slurring like an elementary 
schoolchild, and she mixed her sniffings in between, so I couldn't decipher anything. Just as I 
was at a loss for words - 

"Hello, this is Koizumi." 

The crisp voice replaced the cries of Asahina-san. 

What? Those two are together at this time of the day? Why am I not there? Koizumi, you have 
exactly five seconds to keep your head glued to your neck in which you can give me a satisfying 
and comprehensible answer to all of this. 

"Something has occurred. This is rather troublesome, so Asahina-san contacted me in advance 
out of urgency." 


Contacting you instead of me? This rather left a bitter taste in my mouth. 



"This is due to your inability to resolve the issue even if you are approached first... No, I 
apologize. In reality, I can do nothing since the situation is quite perilous." 

I scratched my head. 

"Did Haruhi trigger Armageddon?" 

"Strictly speaking, no; rather, it could be said as a complete negation of that. We have been 
thrust into a situation in which Armageddon will never come." 

Huh? Am I dreaming, or not? Just what are you trying to say? 

Koizumi continued, despite my confusion. 

"I have just contacted Nagato-san. As I have predicted, she seems to be well aware of the 
situation. You will understand the details if you ask Nagato-san. That sums up the situation. 
Could you come and meet us right now? Of course, I will not notify Suzumiya-san." 

Of course I could. Whoever would leave a weeping Asahina-san behind should see worse than 
being burnt at the stake sevenfold. 

Koizumi informed me of the location, which was right in front of the station. It seemed that the 
area was the SOS-reserved meeting spot. 


As such, by the time I'd changed, stumbled out to the courtyard, jumped onto my bicycle, and 
then dashed to the meeting spot, three shadows were already awaiting my arrival. The streets 
were not totally deserted, as I still spotted a few pedestrians who seemed to be students. Thanks 
to them, we could mix in with this crowd and head to some rave party. It's just that I was getting 
tired. 

Asahina-san was in a squatting position when I got to the station. Flanking her were Koizumi, 
donned in simple attire, and Nagato, in sailor uniform. Asahina-san's top and bottom simply did 
not match; perhaps she wore whatever she grabbed. No doubt she either was too panicked to 
have noticed, or the situation was so grievous that her wardrobe was the last thing on her mind. 

The taller of the wingmen noticed my arrival and raised a hand to greet me. 

"Just what has happened?" 

The soft streetlights illuminated the mild fagade of Koizumi. 


"I apologize for asking you to appear at this hour. However, the situation has left Asahina-san in 
her current state." 



Asahina-san, who had curled into a ball, cried like a melting snowman. The damp face with a 
flattened mouth lifted up to look at me, and those beautiful wet cheeks were clearly visible. That 
seductive look would leave me doing anything for her. 


"Uuu... Kyon-kun, I..." 


Asahina-san sniffled and muttered to herself: 
"I cannot return to the future anymore..." 


"To lay it all on the table, what has transpired is just this: We have found ourselves in an endless 
recursion of time." 

Koizumi seemed to have too small a table with too few items. Does he really understand what he 
says? 

"I understand. There is no clearer explanation for this matter. I have discussed the topic with 
Asahina-san..." 

Couldn 't you wait until I arrived before engaging in discussion? 

"We found that the flow of time in the world as of late is erratic. This is to the credit of Asahina- 
san; if not for her, I could not be certain of this fact." 

Certain of what? 

"We will keep experiencing the events that have occurred in the same timeframe." 

You 've said this before. 

"To be precise, from August the seventeenth to the thirty- first." 

Koizumi's words sounded rather bizarre to me. 

"In other words, we are forever trapped in a never-ending summer vacation." 

"It is very much summer vacation right now." 

"It is an ENDLESS SUMMER that will not terminate itself. Within this world, let alone fall, not 
even September will come. In other words, this world has no future beyond August. Asahina 
cannot return to the future for this reason, and it is logically sound. One cannot contact the future 
if the future does not exist, which can be taken as self-evident." 



It is senseless in physics to think of NO FUTURE. Time should flow on its own even if you 
ignore it. I said the following as I looked at Asahina's head: 

"Who would believe such a thing?" 

"At least you must, since none of this can be mentioned to Suzumiya-san at all." 

Koizumi looked over at Asahina-san as well. 

Later on, Asahina-san basically explained this issue to me. Of course, sniffles were intertwined 
with the explanation. 

"Uuu... Lemme think... I have continued to use classified information to contact the future or to 
do classified information... Urr. I only feel something is wrong when I have had no contact 
from classified information for a week. And then classified information... Makes me very 
worried, so I tried to use classified information and the answer was classified information... 
Uuu... Waa! Whatever should I do..." 

What to do? I have no clue. Is classified information some highly sensitive words that must be 
censored? 

"Are we by any chance trapped in one of those bizarre worlds created by Haruhi? Like a physical 
version of closed space or something similar?" 

Koizumi hugged his chest as he leaned on the vending machine, slowly contradicting my 
argument. 

"This time, Suzumiya-san did not recreate the world, but instead severed time, from August 
seventeenth through the thirty-first. As such, this world right now only has a lifespan of two 
weeks. There is no time before the seventeenth, nor is there any from the first of September on. 

In other words, this is a world where September will never arrive." 


He took a long sigh, as if whistling defeat. 

"Time will reset when it reaches twenty-four o'clock on the thirty-first of August, returning to the 
seventeenth. I don't know the details, but it appears that there is a SAVE POINT at the dawn of 
the seventeenth." 

Then what of our... No, the memory of all of humanity? 


"They will all be readjusted. The collective memory of all humans throughout the two weeks will 
be zeroed and restarted from the beginning." 



This world really enjoys turning time about back and forth. This can 't be helped, though, with a 
time traveller in our midst. 

"No, this does not involve Asahina-san. It is not as simplistic as you have speculated." 

How would you know? 

"Only Suzumiya-san possesses the qualities to undertake such an endeavor. Who might you have 
in mind of other than her?" 

Those who would think about who is responsible for such things when they're bored are either 
absent-minded or daydream all the time. 

"Just cut to the chase and tell me what to do about this." 

"That would be much easier if I had a solution for this problem." 

For some reason, I thought Koizumi looked rather gleeful, with no sign of concern. Why is that? 

"Because I have finally resolved this feeling of incoherence which has puzzled me for some 
time." 

Which would mean that only you are out of the woods. 

"You as well, I assume? Have you not experienced a powerful sense of deja vu, from the day we 
visited the city pool up till now? In retrospect, those flashbacks are remnants of the previous 
incarnation - as there is no other explanation. Now, all of this has been addressed. The anomalies 
that we experience are the remaining segments from the reset." 

Wouldn't all human beings have felt this? 

"Supposedly, no. You and I are special exceptions. It appears that only those who are near 
Suzumiya-san are likely to experience the changes to the world." 

"What of Haruhi? Does that woman have no sense whatsoever?" 

"It seems not. If she did, this matter would be far more complicated..." 

Koizumi glanced in the direction of Nagato, asking for the alien's input. 

Nagato answered with a calm expression. 

"This would be the fifteen-thousand four hundred ninety-eighth time." 


A spell of dizziness set in. 



Fifteen-thousand four hundred ninety-eight. That takes up thirty-seven letters. Arabic numeral 
notation is 15,498, which feels like a lot less. The Arabic numeral is brilliant. Whoever thought 
of this deserves my profuse thanks. You are incredible for developing this convenient, 
nonessential, and completely illogical notation. 

"The same two weeks have repeated for more than ten thousand times. Assuming any layperson 
could feel that they were trapped in this loop and memory accumulated, they would break down. 
As for the memories of Suzumiya-san, I suspect that they must have been wiped much more 
thoroughly than ours." 

One must consult the oracle in such moments. I asked for Nagato's confirmation: 

"Is this so?" 

"Yes." 

Nagato nodded. 


"So we have already done whatever it is we will be doing tomorrow? Would the O-bon and the 
goldfish be like that as well?" 

"Not necessarily." 

Nagato conveyed not a shred of emotion. 

"There are discrepancies with Suzumiya Haruhi's activities within the last fifteen-thousand four 
hundred ninety-seven cycles." 

She looked toward me slightly and continued. 

"In the last fifteen-thousand four hundred ninety-seven cycles, O-bon has been omitted twice. O- 
bon sans goldfish catching occurred a total of four hundred thirty-seven times. The city pool has 
been visited without fail as of this cycle. Part-time work has been conducted a total of nine- 
thousand twenty-five times with six variations in the nature of the work. Other than distributing 
balloons, there has also been stock loading, cash register, flyer distributions, call answering, as 
well as a model fashion show. There have been six-thousand eleven balloon distributions, with 
three hundred sixty overlaps in two or more variations. Repeated iterations sorted by order of 
combination are-" 

"That's enough, you don't have to continue." 

I started to think to myself after the alien-made artificial human quieted down. 


The last two weeks of August have been repeated for fifteen thousand and... how many hundred 
again? Argh... annoying. 15,498 times, there we go. The cycle begins anew after the thirty-first 



of August and returns to the seventeenth. That, and I have no recollection of this, and Nagato 
remembers this to the last detail- why is that? 

"Nagato-san, or more precisely the Data Integration Entity, exists outside the boundaries of space 
and time." 

The rather proud smile of Koizumi seemed a bit stiff, maybe because of the lighting. 

Never mind, that's not important, just leave it for now. I knew Nagato's cranium could withstand 
such a thing, but that wasn't my concern. What I was concerned with was... 

"Nagato, you have experienced the events of these two weeks for 15,498 times as well?" 

"Yes." 

Nagato nodded as if it didn't matter. Can 't you reveal more than just a simple yes? Although I 
couldn't think of what she might say other than that word. But - 

"Hmm..." 

Wait. 15,498 x two weeks. The total would be 216,972 days. Eh- roughly 594 years worth of 
days. This girl had carried on through the passing of every single one of those days, every single 
cycle, and had witnessed everything that had occurred nonchalantly. Even the most patient of 
humans would be drained of patience after that. If you don't believe me, try and take 15,498 dips 
in the city pool. 

"You..." 

I hushed myself the moment I let out that word. Nagato cocked her head like a bird as she stared 
into me. 

A vibe that emanated from Nagato by the swimming pool reawakened. She looked rather bored 
at that moment, which I suppose wasn't my fault. Even for Nagato, having to relive such a 
moment so many times would no doubt be toiling. Although on the surface she hasn't uttered a 
word of complaint, she might be cursing in the dark... This thought flashed through my head. I 
finally had a grasp on what was going on, but the underlying reasons hadn't been verified. 

"Why would Haruhi do such a thing?" 

"I have a personal hunch." 

With his typical opener, Koizumi continued: 

"Suzumiya-san perhaps has no wish for summer vacation to end. Because she thinks that way 
inside her mind, summer vacation has become an endless recursion." 



Isn 't that like the reason brats refuse to go to school? 

Koizumi subconsciously touched the rim of his can of coffee. 

"I suspect that she might be half-heartedly preparing for the new semester, since she did not 
finish all the things that she wanted to do during the last two weeks of summer. In other words, 
there are many regrets in her. As such, she faces the evening of the thirty-first with an unfulfilled 
heart..." 

And as soon as she wakes up, there are two weeks worth of summer vacation waiting for her, 
right? How should I put this... I suppose melancholy more than defeat described my current 
mentality. I know she is one who is able to do just about anything to get what she wants, but 
never had I imagined that her thickheadedness could reach such heights. 

"If so, what must be done before the woman will be satisfied?" 

"I do not know. Nagato-san, do you know?" 

"No." 

The answer came in a crisp fashion. Out of all of us, you are the most dependable! I couldn't 
refrain from projecting my thoughts. 

"Why is it that you have said nothing? We've ended up dancing a two-week waltz thousands of 
times." 

After a spell of silence, Nagato said, lightly: 

"My duty is to observe." 

"...I see." 

This gave me some closure. Nagato had not been actively involved in any of our events up till 
now, but her existence was pivotal to virtually every single event. I daresay that the only time 
this girl had engaged others actively would be that time when she led me to her home. With that 
being the only exception, Nagato had participated with us by manning a vital position without a 
sound. 

I hadn't forgotten that Nagato Yuki is a humanoid interface made by the Data Integration Entity 
to communicate, as well as a biological android created to observe Suzumiya Haruhi. I wondered 
if a safety on her emotional displays might be in her specifications perchance. 

"Nevermind, that doesn't matter." 

Before all of that, Nagato Yuki to me is an avid reader, one of little words, built with a small 
frame, but a completely dependable partner. 



Of all the SOS Brigade members, Nagato possesses the broadest knowledge as well as the most 
active mind. With those in mind, I decided to ask the know-it-all further. 


"How many times have we discovered this?" 

My sudden question seemed anticipated by Nagato, as she calmly answered: 

"Eight-thousand seven-hundred sixty-nine times. Frequency of detection increases with each 
iteration." 

"That is because of the sense of incoherence and familiarity, perhaps." 

Koizumi said this matter-of-factly. 

"But even in those repeating cycles, even if we discovered our situation, we still failed to remedy 
the situation and restore time?" 

"Correct," Nagato replied. 

No wonder Asahina-san broke down. She cries like this because she knows this fact. The moment 
she realizes once more that she has lost two weeks' worth of body growth and memories due to 
the reset... And then to be devastated again after discovering that she is trapped in this rut. 

I have already thought of this an uncountable number of times. Ever since I first met Haruhi in 
the spring, I find myself thinking like this whenever some crisis occurs because of her, whether 
that be now or in the past. 

That's not good. 

No doubt this is the 8,769th time that I have thought of this within these two weeks. 

This is too much... 

Yet another fairytale. 


The day after that was stargazing. 

The locale was the roof of Nagato's apartment building. The clumsy and bulky telescope came 
courtesy of Koizumi. He had it mounted on a tripod. We started at eight o'clock in the night. 

The night sky looked quite bleak, as did Asahina-san's face. Her facial expression was either 
dumbstruck or in disarray. My feelings were also a mess, so it really wasn't the time to stare at 
the stars. 



Koizumi extended the smile on his face as he set up the telescope. 


"This was my hobby back when I was a kid. I was so touched when I first saw the moons of 
Jupiter." 

Nagato, as usual, stood still on the rooftop as a sentry. 

I shifted my view to the night sky, but I could only see two or three stars. The air was too 
polluted in the city to see much. To say that "there is no sky" at this point would've been quite 
fitting. Come winter, when the atmosphere clears up, Orion would show itself. 

The head of the telescope took aim at Earth's neighbour. Haruhi, with her head poking about, 
said: 

"No." 

"No what?" 

"No Martian?" 

I don't hope for Martians to exist. Just think, a couple of octopus-looking monsters wriggling 
about as they discuss their Earth invasion plan. No matter how sweet their mouths are, I can't use 
the term "interesting" to describe them. 

"Why is that? They might be very friendly. Look, there's nobody on the surface, so they must be 
the type to hide underground. This is the best proof that they're afraid of startling us humans 
because they're nice." 

Haruhi seemed to have underground dwellers in mind for her imaginary Martian. Please, at least 
tell me what kind. Would it be Pellucidar? Or those from Mars Attacks? If it is a combination of 
the two, things could get ugly. Think simple; the simpler the better. 

"They might be doing prep work inside so that when the first Mars lander finally lands, they 
could come out and welcome humans in surprise! They might even say, 'Welcome to Mars, 
neighbors! We welcome you!"' 

That would be even scarier. If there's a mishap, it would turn from a surprise to a fright. I have 
no idea who might be the first to land on Martian soil, but it might be best to give him an 
advance notice so he is emotionally prepared. Is it fine to send mail to NASA? 

We took turns looking at the outlines of Mars and the Lunar craters as time went by. Just when I 
started wondering why we lost a man, I found Asahina-san with her eyes shut, head tilted as she 
hugged her knees, and leaned over the fence that prevents one from falling to an untimely death 
from the rooftop. She must have had a sleepless night yesterday, so I'll just let her be. 

Haruhi, apparently tired of staring at the unchanging night sky, remarked: 



"Let's hunt for UFOs! They must be aiming at Earth, who knows if there's advanced scouts over 
the low orbits right as we speak." 


Haruhi happily turned the telescope about, but got tired of that quickly. She sat down next to 
Asahina-san, and fell into slumber while leaning on her narrow shoulder. 

Koizumi whispered: 

"Tired?" 

"Kind of hard to imagine that she would be even more exhausted than us." 

Haruhi was in deep sleep. This gave me the urge to doodle all over her face. However, her sleepy 
visage wasn't one I wanted to deface. That woman is quite a looker if she doesn't say a word. It 
would be better if she and Nagato swapped minds. A totally expressionless Haruhi is already 
hard to comprehend, while a jittery and expressive Nagato is just beyond me. 

With the night breeze gushing about, I looked at Asahina-san and Haruhi, sleeping next to each 
other. Those two made for decent competition as they were right now. Maybe some people might 
find Haruhi more outstanding. Hmm... Definitely. 

"Just what does she want to do?" 

I let this out with the air of a sigh. 



£3 

With the night breeze gushing about, I looked at Asahina-san and Haruhi, sleeping next to each other. 
Those two made for decent competition as they were right now. 

"Could it be to have fun with some friends and have a great time?" 

"Perhaps. Speaking of Suzumiya-san's friends, we would be them." 

Koizumi gazed at the other end of the cosmos. 

"If so, the most important thing is to find out just what will satisfy her. Should we fail, this cycle 
of time will never end. We can only accompany her until she finds her very wants that go 



unfulfilled and makes them happen. Fortunately and thankfully, memory adjustment exists, or 
we would suffer a nervous breakdown from this eventually." 

Repeated for fifteen-thousand four-hundred ninety-eight times. 

Is this for real? Could Nagato merely be scaring us? To put it plainly, this was beyond belief 
just from hearing it, but if the originator was Haruhi, it couldn't be denied. The unknown 
mysterious power of that woman always put us in deep water subconsciously. No matter if it 
were from her reckless nature or deep within her psyche, the same brand of troubles would 
always befall us. She was just that kind of person, the kind that will give you trouble no matter 
what. 

I thought before that we who always accommodated the thoughtless Haruhi might be qualified to 
be nominated as goodwill ambassadors. Each member of the SOS Brigade has a better temper 
than the last. And to think that I happened to be a pivotal figure in deciding the fate of the world. 
This makes me suspect that the world was abnormal from the start. 

To further iterate this point, the naive notion that the world which we safeguard must be 
righteous is simply bullshit that is made and mass produced by humans under the guidance of 
ideologies and doctrines. There are plenty of bigots that blindly advertise this self-centered 
slander and force it upon others. I say to them that they should at least think of what the 
generations millennia later might have to conclude about them. 

Just as I was knee deep in thought on such trivial matters, Koizumi opened his mouth without 
warning: 

"Although we might not know Suzumiya-san's inner desires, should we pry into her mind? For 
example, hug her from behind out of the blue or whisper 'I LOVE YOU,' or something along 
those lines." 

"Who would want to go on that suicide mission?" 

"There is no more suitable individual than you." 

"I exercise veto power. PASS!" 

"In that case, I shall attempt this." 

I obviously missed the expression that my face might have shown. I didn't have a mirror on me at 
the moment. Although Koizumi seemed to have read my mind: 

"I am joking. I lack the caliber to do so. If I really step up to the plate, it will only put Suzumiya- 
san into an unnecessary state of confusion." 


The shrieking laughter that came forth from his throat ended his words. 



I fell into silence once more, staring at the bright moon that shone unabated from the 
melancholic night sky of summer. 

The milky way that decorates the dark canvas blinked under the sun's reflection, seemingly 
inviting me to play. To where? God knows. 

I thought of all of this while staring at the shadow of a petrified Nagato, who faced the night sky. 


Summer was not yet over, but summer vacation was coming to an end- although don't be so sure, 
since I don't know if summer break will really end or not. Please spare me. Honest. 

We might very well return to August seventeenth. Just what to do in order to make Haruhi figure 
out just what this "thing that has not yet been done" is? 

What could she have left out? I had a mountain of summer assignments that hadn't been touched 
since I brought it home. That couldn't be her concern, as she had it done way in advance. 

Whatever should we do next? 

"Let's head to the practice grounds." 

Haruhi unveiled an aluminium bat, the very battered one that was taken from some baseball club 
one day. I never would've thought that she would keep the battered bat, which was better for 
bludgeoning than hitting balls. 

The chief tossed her hair as she waved her bat at us with a beaming smile, and led us to the 
batting center down the way. I bet that high school league sent some strange vibes to her. 

The specter of melancholy changed hands. It was now time for the blue, minute face of the SOS 
Brigade's Asahina-san to sink deeper into the blues. Honestly, this was slightly regrettable, for 
she must have been longing for her own world. 

Back to the casually-paced Koizumi and Nagato, who were the spitting images of a smiley face 
and a stoic. Would you all get serious and not act so carefree?! 


"Hu~ 


ft 


I let a breath of air out of me, and my view became occupied by the bouncing black hair of 
Haruhi. 



I have no idea who decided that protecting Haruhi would be my job, which started on the day of 
SOS's initiation. I will control my urge to vent my frustrations, since I can't pinpoint who the 
culprit is. That said, I shall make a declaration: 

Do not praise me too highly for this job. I am but a layperson. 

Although such a monologue only exposes my inner void. 

Asahina-san was stymied. Koizumi had only smiled, while Nagato observed the surroundings 
silently. 

I definitely must make Haruhi do something , somehow. 

However, make her do what? 

The answer lay in Haruhi, but not even Haruhi herself had any idea as to what the source of the 
problem was. 

"Mikuru-chan doesn't need to swing the bat! You just practice bunting since you couldn't even 
get a hit no matter how hard you swing. Knock the ball down to get a ground ball. Ahh- don't hit 
it upward!" 

The battlefield of the last baseball tournament still smelled of gunpowder. Does she intend to 
compete next year? 

Haruhi hogged the 130km/h batting practice net. Bang! Bang! And there went the whistle. I felt a 
lot better seeing her so happy. That person is definitely a prodigy. Who knows, maybe she was 
born with more mitochondria than anyone else; how else could she have gotten all that energy? It 
would've been great if she had spared some for charity work... 


We kept going, since no one could press the "stop" button on Haruhi's caloric exhaustion plan. 

We even headed to the local fireworks show. The fireworks were Shaku-dama shells launched 
from the shore. The three donned their yukata once more, but only Haruhi was really enjoying 
the rockets that went "boom, boom!" as they shot up in the air and "boom boom!" as they spread 
across the sky. Well, only she could be laughing on her belly as she pointed at the poor caricature 
impressions made by the fireworks. Haruhi just loves the excess of splendor. We can only see 
her genuine, untainted, and very childish smile at times like these, although I took my eyes away 
from her rather quickly, because if I kept staring at her, who knows what I would be thinking 
about. As for what I might think of, I am not sure of it myself. All of this, however, gives me a 
lesson: one must dress for the occasion. 



A couple of days later, on a sudden whim, we joined in on the municipal Japanese Gobioid 
fishing competition and came back empty-handed. Our lures kept baiting some little fish that 
we'd never even seen, so we couldn't even submit their measurements - although Haruhi was 
absorbed in the joy of luring and reeling, not in catching. This was more of a reassuring and most 
moving blessing than having mistakenly fetch a Coelacanth out of nowhere, since I could enjoy 
the hand-made bento of the now-green Asahina-san, who ran at the sight of the sandworm bait. 

This time around, Haruhi and I were baked black, creating a sharp contrast with the other two, 
who came with UV protection. Nagato seems to be an exception, as she just doesn't get a tan no 
matter what. Great! Since a crispy brown Nagato is something that would be totally out of this 
world. 

That said, I knew very well that it was really no time to be enjoying myself. 


Time went by like a speeding train on a track. 

Haruhi was still filled with energy as I continued my loathing. The blue Asahina-san was now a 
shade of dark green, while Koizumi was beaming with his smile as if he were beyond the issue at 
hand. Only Nagato showed negligible difference. 

In retrospect, these two weeks have been filled with thrills. 

The deadline, however, is up. Today is the thirtieth of August, leaving only one day left for 
summer break. It will be over if we don't think of something within the next two days, but I have 
absolutely no clue as to what to try. The summer light, the cries of higurashi... All the ingredients 
of summer are sources of anxiety. The high school baseball league has produced a champion, 
too. Why oh why can't this last longer!? 

At least, until Haruhi is totally satisfied. 


Haruhi crossed out every single item on the list. 

Yesterday night, we marched right into a graveyard during the heat of the night as we brought 
the activities of summer to a close with the "test of courage." There was no ghost fire, nor were 
there any phantoms. The only thing worth paying attention to was the terrified look of Asahina- 
san. 


With that, everything is done. 



It was just past noon on the thirtieth of August, and we were in the all-too-familiar coffee shop 
right now. 


Haruhi stared at the torn spot of the note as if she knew the whereabouts of the lost treasures of 
Tokugawa, with a deadpan expression that was like the pen strokes etched onto a page. She was 
both somewhat satisfied and unwilling to let go. I would be in her shoes, actually. There was 
only one more day of summer left. 

Would summer actually end? At this point I was very skeptical about that; maybe I'm too much 
of a skeptic. Then again, you would become schizophrenic if you had spent a couple of months 
in this retarded organization lead by an overemotional chief. I sincerely hoped that she would 
become milder, preferably like when only Asahina-san is present with me, since that would make 
life... Nonono, I must stop this, since we might end up going in circles from that (all puns 
intended). 

"Hmm- is that all-?" 

Haruhi kept stabbing at the vanilla ice cream adrift on her cola. She was not being very decisive. 

Nagato was silent and was quietly observing the floating lemon slice in her iced tea. Asahina- 
san's hands were clutching each other tightly on her knees; she was totally defeated, like a little 
puppy getting scolded. Koizumi was sipping his Vienna coffee as carefree as ever. 

As for me, I had nothing to say as I hugged my chest, trying to figure out what to do. 

"Never mind. We've done enough this summer. We've been to all sorts of places, worn yukata, 
and caught a good share of cicadas." 

I happen to think that Haruhi was just patting herself on the back. It's really not like that! As-is, 
we've done enough. I felt from the bottom of my heart that Haruhi was not ready to slam the 
books on summer. No matter how she covered it, she was merely lying to herself. Inside Haruhi, 
in the deepest part of Haruhi, she yearned for more. 

"As for today." 

Haruhi handed the bill to me- 

"It ends now. Leave tomorrow free; it doesn't matter if you want to stay at home and rest. Let us 
meet in the clubroom in two days." 

I felt very jittery when I saw Haruhi get off the chair and leave the table in style. 

We couldn't let Haruhi go home like this. There had to be a conclusion for once. If not, then the 
two week span discovered by Koizumi and guaranteed by Nagato would get to its fifteen 
thousand four hundred and ninety-nineth round. 



But, what to do? 


Haruhi's form receded from me in slow motion. 

Just now! It was too sudden, out of the blue, just unexpectedly- 
It came. 

This garbled feeling of "where have I seen this?" returned. This wave today came with spells of 
dizziness that were of an unimaginable magnitude compared to the last few times. It was a sense 
of deja vu unlike any other. I knew what this was because I had lived through it thousands of 
times. August the thirtieth. One day left. 

There must be something in Haruhi's words that kicked me subconsciously. Just what is it, what 
is it, what is it- 

"Are you all right?" 

Somebody was saying something. Koizumi's words should offer hints, as well. Something that 
keeps getting delayed and has me worrying about... 

Haruhi was off her seat and ready to dash home like a hurricane. She couldn't leave, or there 
would be no change to our situation. Have I done anything in the past to twist the scenario? 
Scene after scene ran past me like a slideshow. Everything we had done within the last two 
weeks... 

And- things we had not done. 

There was no time to think. I had to say something. How trivial matters not Just say it! 

"My problems aren't over!" 

I must clarify: that's not shouting. Looking at it with a cool head later, that would be an instant 
burnt in and erased from the hippocampus. The surrounding customers and staff, as well as 
Haruhi, who was at the automatic door, turned their heads around and looked at me. 

Words came pouring out of my mouth straight from my head. 

"That's right, it's homework!" 

Everyone in the shop was shocked once more with my loud declaration. 

"What the hell are you talking about?" 

Haruhi stepped toward me as if looking at a maniac. 



Your issue? Homework? 


"I haven't done a thing for the summer assignment that we were given. If that doesn't get done, I 
can't let summer end." 

"Are you nuts?" 

She showed a look of utter distaste for idiots. Who cares, who cares?! 

"Oy! Koizumi!" 

"Yes, what is it?" 

Koizumi seemed to have gotten a fright. 

"How about you?" 

"Not at all, since we have been running about through this summer. I have about half left." 

"Let's do this together, then. Nagato as well, you wouldn't have it done!" 

Before Nagato could answer, I extended my hand to Asahina-san, whose mouth was as wide 
open as a marionette doll in a puppet show. 

"Asahina-san, why don't you tag along as well? Let's get the summer assignment behind us once 
and for all." 

"Ehh..." 

Asahina-san was a sophomore, so her work was different from ours, although that had no 
importance right now. 

"But... But... Whe... Where to?" 

"Come to my place. Bring your notes and your books and we can talk amongst ourselves while 
doing it. Nagato, Koizumi, let me copy whatever you two got done." 

Koizumi nods. 

"Nagato, you in?" 

"Yes." 

The half-beat kappa head nodded and stared at me. 



"All right! See you all tomorrow! Let's get started in the morning. We should be able to rush 
through it all in a day. " 

Just as I held my fist high with an ego to match- 
"Hold it right there!" 

Haruhi, full of pride and with her hands stuck to her waist, came back to the side of the table. 

"Don't you decide this on your own! I am the chief! You better ask me if it is OK to do 
something! Kyon, any member making decisions on his own accord commits a serious offense of 
the brigade rules!" 

With that out of her lungs, Haruhi glares at me and shrieked: 

"Count me in!" 


It was now the morning after. 

I think I have it right. As I got up from my bed, I knew that we were out of the woods. 

I knew this because I remembered that I had come back from the countryside when O-bon was 
over, and I could also recall memories of August from the pool and cicada hunts and so forth. Of 
all those memories to boot, the best of them would be yesterday's date, clearly in my mind right 
now. 

Yesterday was the thirty- first of August, and today was the first of September. 

My freshest memories revealed to me that, on the last day of summer, I hosted the SOS Brigade 
crunch fest in this room. I recall that feeling of dazed fatigue well. It was exhausting enough 
having to copy down all the notes, so I can only dread the magnitude of the work had I been left 
to my own devices. When I hit the bunks yesterday night, my brain was sure of one thing, that 
being that my HP, MP, and LIMIT bars were so low that just one swing would be enough to 
knock me out cold in my bed. 

Yesterday, Haruhi took her pile of summer assignments to my room and shot a cold look at me, 
knee deep in work with my automatic pencil. Koizumi, Nagato, and Asahina-san then played 
with my little sister. 

"Don't just plagiarize." 


Haruhi continued as she was pressing the buttons on the controller and gaming with my sister: 



"Paraphrase a bit, make sure you take extra steps with the equations as well. The teachers aren't 
all idiots. Math teacher Yoshizaki in particular likes to go after the gritty details. That said, 
Yoshizaki's solutions aren't exactly strokes of genius." 


Having five people plus my sister in my room was cramped enough as it was, but adding my 
mom, who kept delivering lunches, desserts, and juice, only added fuel to my fire. Unlike most 
of us, who were close to getting carpal tunnel from all the wrist movements, Haruhi was having a 
great time. Just look at her! The higher-ups must look upon peons with that same smile on their 
face. Who knows if she's in over her head. Haruhi actually decided to offer input on Asahina- 
san's short essay. If Asahina-san comes home with a "C, " we can blame it squarely on Haruhi... 

As the trip down memory lane came to an end, I crawled my way out of bed. 

Today was a brand new beginning in a brand new term, I guess. 

This was the first time in my life that I had looked forward to the coming of the new term. 


Class had ended. The principal's lecture was over, as was the short class meeting. Today was the 
first of September. I asked while in class, "What day is it?" with Taniguchi and Kunosaki giving 
me a look of pity. I guess it really is the first of September. 

Because the cafeteria and the convenience store had yet to open, Haruhi headed off to the 
restaurant outside the schoolyard for her dining needs. The clubroom was occupied by me and 
Koizumi. 

"Suzumiya-san is a maestro of the Renaissance. No doubt that she was remarkable from her 
infancy, so this summer assignment is not a burden of any sort to her. Such a remarkable 
personality would not fathom having to share the work with her friends, as it is pointless given 
her ability to single-handedly complete the tasks at hand." 

Having heard Koizumi's explanation, I pulled the collapsible chair over to the windowpane. We 
were in the clubroom of the literature club. Today was orientation day, so we could've packed 
our bags and left, but I just felt like taking a detour in the clubroom, only to find Koizumi 
tagging along. The scariest and the most important thing is that Nagato was not with us. 
Although she didn't show it, the summer break must have been incredibly weary for her. 

There was a change at hand over the cicada's territorial control. Higurashi were taking over the 
brown cicadas. Summer was over, that I was sure of. However- 

"It's like a dream! We've been through the end of August for fifteen thousand somewhat odd 
times." 

"It would not be baseless to think as such." 



Koizumi started to shuffle the deck with his beaming smile. 

"There is no common memory between us that existed within those fifteen thousand four 
hundred and ninety seven fortnights. They don't exist on the same time axis. Only we who have 
advanced in the fifteen thousand four hundred and ninety eight iterations have returned to the 
time stream." 

That might be so, but I have received definite hints, those being the sense of familiarity that 
struck me so many times, especially that last wave that hit me. Maybe the gifts from "us" of the 
previous loops stuck in the moment. Would it be odd to say that's in the past? Whether it'd be 
before or in the beginning, time is just like tigerskin melted down to butter as it twirls round and 
round. 

Well, it is thanks to the me in the thousands of repeats that the me of today can be back on track. 
If I don't think this way, then thousands upon thousands of summer days, courtesy of Haruhi, 
would've seemingly been wasted. 

Not to mention the eight thousand seven hundred and sixty-nine mes who felt this "reset." 

"Want to play poker?" 

Koizumi started to hand out the cards like an amateur magician. It wouldn't hurt to entertain him. 
"Fine, what will it be? Forget it if it's a money game." 

"Then no money." 

I only win big when winning doesn't matter. Royal flush! That's a first. 


I swore in the back of my mind that if this day were to be repeated, I would be betting bucks for 
sure. 

(Endless Eight end) 


Prologue - Autumn 


Prologue - Autumn 


It was finally the second half of November, and fatigue had taken over my whole body after the 
end of that school festival. 

Director Haruhi's cinematographic skills were chaotic, to say the least, yet the movie did quite 
well at the box office. I had thought she would indulge herself in her own success and cool 
down, but from start to finish, her pace never slackened. 

Yet the school never stopped providing Haruhi with insane activities that might cause her to 
think or her subordinates to have to do things. Take the Student Council President election. I was 
really worried about what to do if Haruhi were to run for that position. I later discovered that 
Haruhi had the strange belief that the Student Council is the sworn enemy of all little club 
activities, and was not interested in infiltrating and destroying them from within, nor in taking 
over as the real master in the shadows. 

Sounds more like she wants to fight this unseen force, if it even exists, head on. 

It took great effort for them to pretend that such a suspicious club as the SOS Brigade never 
existed, or even just simply to ignore it. I mean, wasn't it a good thing that we each kept to our 
own affairs? Yet Haruhi is always full of spirit. It's just that I didn't know how she intended to do 
battle with this unknown enemy. 

However, that sort of expectation was just a mere premonition, because the ones coming to us 
with flags and banners weren't assassins sent by the Student Council, but our neighbors bearing 
the flames of vengeance. 


The Day of Sagittarius 

The Day of Sagittarius 


The vast darkness of space stretched before my eyes. 

It was like wearing goggles and getting lost within the darkness of the Horse-head Nebula: not 
even a single speck of starlight could be seen. To put it bluntly, it was like a crudely made 
background. At that moment, I started thinking it would have been a good idea to include some 
cinematics, but everything in this galaxy, including this space background, had a reason behind 
it, like logistics, technical constraints, or time. 


"I can't see anything at all." 

I began to grumble, since the screen had been showing nothing but darkness; I started wondering 
if the monitor had gone dead. 

As I was wondering where in the galaxy I was wandering, a bright spot suddenly appeared on the 
dark screen and began to move forward. I decided to report to my superior. 

"Hey, Haruhi, do you mind slowing down a bit? Your flagship's too fast." 

Haruhi gave the following response to my report: 

"Call me Supreme Commander, First Officer. The SOS Brigade possesses the highest military 
ranks; after all, we're the greatest ever." 

As I pondered which of us were the Supreme Commander and First Officer 

"Commander Suzumiya, Intelligence Officer Nagato reports that the enemy fleet is moving 
suspiciously. How should we respond?" 

Koizumi, the ass-kisser, reported the facts faithfully. Haruhi's response was, 

"We'll just have to give them a surprise attack!" 

A Haruhi-ist command indeed, but no one obeyed her. Or rather, no one dared to obey her, since 
if we faced the enemy head on, we would end up like the Takeda cavalry as they made their ill- 
fated triple assault on Tanegashima. 

Asahina raised her hands and asked uncomfortably, 

"Um what should I be doing ?" 

"Mikuru-chan, you'll just get in the way, so just put your supply fleet over there, since I never 
expected anything from you. Kyon, you, Yuki and Koizumi-kun are in charge of taking on the 
enemy's front guard, while I give them a critical hit. A knockout critical hit, that is!" 

Someone, please come and stop this girl! 

I returned my gaze to the screen to reconfirm where my fleet was within the SOS Brigade Fleet. 
The 15,000 vessels of the <Kyon Fleet> were now chasing the cCommander Haruhi Fleet> in a 
straight line, the cKoizumi Fleet> was escorting us at the side, while the ever reliable <Yuki 
Fleet> was now far ahead in search of enemy vessels. As for the <Mikuru Fleet> which was in 
charge of supplies... thanks to Asahina's clumsy piloting skills, her fleet had been lost in space 
from the beginning. 


Ah — ! ! W... where should I go? 



Asahina made a sound close to sobbing; she was helpless as usual. 


Ay long as you're behind us, any direction will do. Just wander wherever you please. Although 
it's just a fleet on the screen, I do not wish for a fleet bearing your name to appear on the 
casualty list. 

Suddenly, changes began to appear on the screen. The surveillance vessels sent out by the <Yuki 
Fleet> had now transmitted data to my fleet, which was linked to them. Besides indicating our 
fleet's vessels, the dark screen now also showed the enemy vessels that Nagato had detected. 

"Haruhi, fall back," I said. "They've split up their fleet and are probably searching for your 
position. As a Commander, you ought to act like one and command behind the front lines." 

"What on earth are you talking about?" 

Haruhi's lips now pursed in irritation. 

"Are you trying to leave me out of this battle? How mean! I want to fire deathrays and missiles 
along with everyone else as well ! " 

I gave the command for the <Kyon Fleet> to speed up slightly and said, 

"Haruhi, listen, once your fleet is hit, we're finished. Just look, the enemy's vessels in front are all 
just pawns, while their flagship is probably hiding behind giving commands. You don't see 
people sending their Kings out to the battlefield in chess, do you? Besides, we've only just begun 
the battle." 

"Erm... you may be right..." 

Haruhi looked a bit embarrassed and stared at me like a cat begging for food. 

"Then, I'll let you guys handle the situation for now. When you come into contact with any 
enemy vessels, just fire away. There's no way we can lose to those bastards, absolutely no way. 

If we lose, the SOS Brigade's reputation will be in tatters. Besides, I just can't stand them being 
above me ! " 

"Commander. Intelligence Officer Nagato's <Yuki Fleet> has engaged the enemy and gone to 
battle stations. I too wish for Your Excellency to command us all from the back." 

Koizumi sounded serious, but it's hard to take this guy seriously when he's smiling so cheerfully. 

"Oh... really?" 

Haruhi was now in seventh heaven thanks to Koizumi's ass-kissing. She crossed her arms and sat 
on the commander's seat, showing the expression of a high-ranking rookie commander who is 
only there because of her birthright and not her commanding ability. 



"Since Advising Officer Koizumi says so, I'll take his advice. Everyone, go out and kill them all! 
Show those Computer Study Group people the consequences of trying to be too clever. Our 
battle objective is total annihilation! Grind them all into stardust!" 

There was nothing wrong with her aim in achieving total victory, but it's best not to forget that 
they were the ones who initiated this battle, so they probably had some cards up their sleeves. 

In my opinion, the SOS Brigade's chances of victory were slimmer than the Japanese navy's were 
at Leyte Gulf. There are no ifs in history; even though we were now evenly matched in the 
number of fleets, we would still lose. So it would probably be best to surrender right away. 

"Sigh, don't think we can do that either." 



£3 

She crossed her arms and sat on the commander's seat, showing the expression of a high-ranking rookie 
commander who is only there because of her birthright and not her commanding ability. 

I rolled up my sleeves and reconfirmed the enemy intelligence on my screen. As expected from 
Nagato, all the enemy fleets, save the commander's fleet, had now been located. The 
responsibility of leading our fleet to victory now rested on me (having involuntarily been given 
the ridiculously exaggerated title of First Officer) using my wits and fingers. 

What strategy should we use? 

"First of all here!" 

I stared into the LCD monitor of my notebook PC, and tried to speculate where Commander 
Haruhi's intentions would lead us. 



But before getting into that, I'd better explain our current situation to everyone first. It's always 
good to sort out one's thoughts, in order to make the correct decision. Yes, let's start from there. 

It all began a week ago. 


One autumn day after school. 

It was days after the school festival had ended, and the school had returned to its usual peaceful 
mood. 

The sentence above was just a cliche, since, to put it bluntly, we'd merely returned to where we 
were before the school festival. Despite this, I wasn't the only one who was grateful things had 
ended so peacefully. 

Since the others hadn't confessed to me fully, I had no idea what they were really thinking, 
except that Koizumi's trademark smile now carried more relief than usual, while Nagato's blank 
expression was a guarantee for a job well done. 

For some time, especially recently, I have treated the intense reading of this bookworm as a sign 
that peace has returned. If Nagato had begun doing weird stuff, or started showing a sense of 
helplessness, then I'd have had to start writing my will and memoirs. I don't suppose the word 
"unexpected" exists in Nagato's vocabulary. So when I see her sitting in the corner of the 
Literature Room reading her foreign science fiction novels, I can say with confidence that it is a 
sure sign that horrible nightmares won't be coming here. 

On the other hand, the pretty fake maid continued to serve tea meaninglessly in her usual 
costume. It's hard to believe she's from the future, as she never seems to know anything about the 
past. With a serious look, she began brewing some warm Japanese tea. I have no idea where 
Asahina learned all this, but she seems to know the correct temperature for brewing all sorts of 
tea leaves. And she wasn't brewing with the hot water from the electric flask, but with tap water 
boiled with a kettle. 

She held a thermometer in one hand, opened the kettle lid with her other hand and stuck the 
thermometer into the kettle, studying it intently. I just couldn't see her as someone from the 
future. Something was just not right. Come to think of it, nothing was right with the headquarters 
of the SOS Brigade, because everything in it was so weird. The only thing that was normal was 
my own consciousness telling me that I really do exist. Man, I feel like Rene Descartes right 
now. 


This club room once belonged to the Literature Club, but for some time now it had been the lair 
for Suzumiya Haruhi and her henchmen. I'm probably an important figure myself, if I can remain 
sane in such a warped dimension. Now that I think about it, the other members in this brigade 



(besides me) are each backed by a mysterious force, while Haruhi, the commander herself, is full 
of mysteries. I'm the only one here with an objective mind, and I get frustrated every time I 
realize that. 

The lunatic four vs. the objective one - no matter how you look at it, the ratio's just not right. I 
wish someone would come and share my mental burden with me, just one person would do. 

After all, it's not like I have a habit of making some witty remarks every now and then. 
Sometimes I'd like to stay quiet for once. Why does that responsibility always have to fall on my 
shoulders? I feel like singing a melancholic tune to vent my frustration on the unfairness of this 
world. But I don't want to drag Taniguchi and Kunikida into this. It's not that I pity them, but 
they're just not up to it. I don't think they have the suitable vocabulary and reflexes to resist 
Haruhi... I should say they're a bit mental like Tsuruya-san. Damn it! Is this world run by 
maniacs? 

"Hmm." 

I crossed my arms and mumbled as if in deep thought. I wasn't troubled with what move I should 
make next in my Go game with Koizumi. There was no difficulty at all in pushing Koizumi's 
black pieces to the brink of defeat. If I were to be compared with a board game fanatic like 
Koizumi, who is honestly quite bad at all of them, then I'd truly be troubled. But that's not what I 
was troubled about. What I was troubled with was whether this world is normal or not. Because 
according to my hypothesis, in a mad world, only the insane can live their lives normally; even 
the most mentally sane would be driven mad sooner or later. I think I should commend myself 
for being able to exist peacefully as a normal high school student in this whirlpool that is the 
SOS Brigade, where normal rules don't apply. I ought to be praised just for this alone. 

"Allow me to give you some words of praise, then." 

Koizumi managed to elegantly place his piece down on the Go board and gracefully took one of 
my white pieces away. He may have made his move, but from his current situation, it was only a 
matter of time before he found himself in a quagmire. 

"Thanks, but no thanks." 

I replied, and placed my hands into the container carrying the Go pieces. Amidst the clattering 
noise of the pieces being mixed around, Koizumi gave a look of sincerity in praising me. This 
made me even more irritated. 

"Somehow, I don't feel happy at all being praised by a guy like you. Instead, I'm rather disturbed 
at what you might be plotting. Let me make this clear: I'm not one of your pawns. If you think 
I'm going to obediently follow your script, then you're sadly mistaken." 


"When you say 'you,' to whom are you referring? I'm innocent, really. This is all just because you 
and Suzumiya-san keep coming up with strange events. My presence alone is the best evidence 
for that." 



If Koizumi hadn't transferred over, then Haruhi wouldn't have chosen him to join the SOS 
Brigade. Her interest in "Koizumi Itsuki" had nothing to do with his gender, personality, 
behavior or appearance, but simply the fact that he was a transfer student, and nothing else. 
Serves him right. Of all the times to transfer, he had to transfer right after that weird girl had 
enrolled. Or perhaps he transferred on purpose just so he could approach Haruhi? If he is the 
esper wonderboy that Haruhi has been looking for all her life, then he should be avoiding her as 
though she's a highly radioactive substance, randomly giving off Cherenkov radiation. 

"That was in the past." 

Koizumi glanced at the Go piece in his hand. 

"Indeed, the original plan was to quietly observe her from behind the scenes without her 
knowing. I was petrified with terror when Suzumiya-san came straight to my class looking for 
me, then brought me to this room after school that day. And when she announced that the 
purpose of the club is to look for aliens, time travelers, and espers and play with them, what else 
could I do besides smile?" 

Koizumi continued nostalgically, 

"But things are different now. I may have been a mysterious transfer student back then, but I've 
lost that attribute already. I'm sure Suzumiya-san thinks so as well." 

"So what? In my eyes, you're still pretty mysterious." 

Koizumi looked around the room like a cat that loves narrow spaces: he first fixed his gaze for a 
while on Nagato who was busy reading, then on Asahina, who was paying close attention to the 
kettle. Then his gaze returned to its original spot. 

Haruhi wasn't in, since she had cleaning duty that day, or Koizumi and I wouldn't have been 
chatting away in a relaxed manner. 

In a club room with the commander absent, Koizumi smiled gently like an experienced vet about 
to cure a wounded bird and said, 

"Right now, I, Nagato-san, Asahina-san, and you have now become the wonderful members of 
the SOS Brigade, nothing more, nothing less. I'm sure Suzumiya-san must be thinking the same 
way as well." 

"May I ask what's your definition of 'nothing more, nothing less'? Is there some meaning to 
that?" 

"Of course there is a meaning. Paranormal existences like aliens and dimensional travelers are 
considered more than just members, while everyone else is less significant than us members." 



Then Taniguchi, Kunikida, Tsuruya-san and my sister are considered less significant than 
members? I'm not trying to plead for them, but the thought of them being worth less than I am 
sure is discomforting. 

"It's simple, really. If their existence meant a lot to Suzumiya-san, then they would already be 
members by now and would be here in this room as we speak. But the fact that they're not means 
that they aren't important in the eyes of Suzumiya-san. 

"They only mean as much to her as the ordinary passerby. Really, after talking so much, we still 
couldn't avoid using the consequential theory." 

"Then what about dimensional travelers? Have they not arrived yet?" 

"Judging from the results, they probably don't exist. If they did, then they would be summoned to 
this room by chance or by fate." 

"They'd better not come. I don't want to be sucked into an alternate dimension." 

As I placed my white piece down and devoured Koizumi's pieces, a tea cup was being placed by 
the Go board with the victor decided. 

"Sorry to keep you waiting. Please enjoy your tea." 

Smiling like a gentle coach who had managed to lead her rag-tag school baseball team to the 
regional championships, Asahina stood by the table and said, 

"I bought a new brand of tea leaves called 'Karigane.' It's easy to brew, but it's really expensive." 

Asahina-san, you shouldn't be paying for those tea leaves with your own money; make sure you 
remember to ask Haruhi to reimburse your expenses. There's really no need to be so picky over 
what tea leaves to brew with because, as long as it's made by the hands of Asahina, even a cup of 
tap water can taste better than Evian's pure mineral water for me. 

"Hee hee, then please try out the tea." 

Asahina had cosplayed as a maid for so long that she was getting good at it. She placed another 
cup by Koizumi's side, then gracefully carried the tray over and placed a cup by Nagato's side. 


As always, Nagato had nothing to say, but for Asahina, this silence was just as good as sincere 
gratitude. As of now, I've yet to see the SOS Brigade's alien and time traveler having a cheerful 
conversation... No, wait, I've never seen Nagato ever having a cheerful conversation with 
anyone. Forget it, maybe this is a good thing. If Nagato were to suddenly become talkative, I 
think I'd be scared silly. Besides, if she became like Haruhi, in whose case it's better for her to 
shut up, then it'd really be a pity. 



It's best for silent people to remain silent. 



Asahina had cosplayed as a maid for so long that she was getting good at it. She placed another cup by 
Koizumi's side, then gracefully carried the tray over and placed a cup by Nagato's side. 


Playing board games and drinking tea idyllically like this was enough to make one forget that 
evil actually exists in this world. Yet this brief moment of peace didn't last for long. In fear of 
being forgotten, trouble always makes a periodic visit. 

A knock echoed through the door. I lifted my head and watched that bruised, inexpensive door 
and prepared myself mentally. Why was I preparing myself mentally you say? Because right 
now the only ones in the club room are the four of us minus Haruhi, and if Haruhi ever knocks, 
then I'd have to walk to the farthest corner of the room and laugh heartily. In other words, the 
one knocking on the door is neither Haruhi nor anyone else from the SOS Brigade, but someone 
else entirely. Whoever it was, I had no idea, but they must have a reason for visiting. This has 
always been true, as seen with Kimidori-san's visit that day. 

"Coming." 

Asahina rushed with little steps in her slippers to answer the door. How professional, it's as 
though even she believes herself to be a maid. That's good... now what the hell was I talking 
about? 

"Huh?" 

Asahina opened the door and blinked her eyes as if seeing a surprise visitor. 

"Please enter um... do you want to enter?" 

Asahina walked two steps backwards, and for some reason shielded her breasts with her arms. 


No thanks, I only need to say something standing here. 



The visitor's response sounded a bit anxious. He stuck his head through the open door and looked 
around the room. 


"Oh, your commander isn't here " 

Concealing his anxiety within his speech is none other than the leader of the room next to ours, 
the president of the Computer Study Group. 


Since no one else said anything, I ended up having to handle the negotiations. Asahina stood 
there looking awestruck, Koizumi only sat there and smiled at the president, while Nagato 
simply continued reading her book. 

"How may we help you?" 

Since he was a senpai, it was only natural to be polite to him. I walked out and stood in front of 
Asahina. Hmm? Behind the Computer Group president, who hadn't even stepped over the door 
line, stood a bunch of male students that seemed to be his lifeless minions. What's this? It's still a 
bit too early to exact revenge. 

When the president noticed it was me coming out, he breathed a sigh of relief and smiled lightly, 
then straightened his back and said, 

"Here, take this." 

I didn't know what he was up to, suddenly handing me a single CD case. Regardless of whether I 
would accept it or not, there was no reason the Computer Study Group would give things to us 
for free, so naturally I looked at them suspiciously. 

"No, no, there's nothing suspicious about it." The president said. "It's game software, an original 
game created by our study group. We distributed it during the school festival, don't you 
remember?" 

Sorry, I don't think I had that much free time then. The only things I could remember from the 
school festival were the band music concerts and Asahina's noodle stall waitress costume. 

"I see " 

The Computer Group president didn't look dejected, but his brows clearly drooped as he 
mumbled, "It was because we were in a crap location " 

If you came here to have a chat, then you can leave now before Haruhi returns and turns this into 
a big ruckus. 



"Of course I came here for a reason, but it's best to keep things simple. Then, here I go!" 

The president kept sweating, and kept on holding back when he was about to say something; the 
lifeless minions behind also nodded their head with a determined expression. Hurry up and say 
what you want to say. 

"Let's have a showdown with this game!" 

The president said in a different tone and once again handed the CD box to me. 

Why do we want to have a match with the Computer Study Group with this game? If you're short 
on players, then my best advice is to try your luck with other clubs. 

"This isn't a game!" 

Looks like the president wants to struggle on. 

"This is a showdown! With stakes involved!" 

Then go find Koizumi, I'm sure he'll be glad to play with you till sunset. 

"No! We want to have a showdown with you!" 

I beg you, please stop using the word "showdown." It's not like you don't know how things get 
into Haruhi's ears very quickly, if that hyper-confident, self-centered girl ever hears you 

"WHOOOAAA!!!" 

"URRRGGGHHH! !!" 

After a series of weird lines, the president disappeared from my vision as he was kicked off to 
the side. 

"Whoa!?" "President!" "Are you all right?" 

A few seconds later, the lifeless minions began to yell in panic and ran to the side of the 
president, who was now lying in the corridor, while I moved my gaze slowly. 

"Who the hell are you guys!?" 

Looking at the members of the Computer Study Group with her glittering pupils and opening her 
beautiful lips was none other than Suzumiya Haruhi. 

After what was basically a sneak attack and a flying kick on the president, she landed perfectly 
on the ground, looking extremely pleased with herself. 



Haruhi proudly flicked her hair by her ears and said, 


"So, the Evil Organization has come. You must be the secret group that sees the SOS Brigade as 
their sworn enemy. I won't let you get away with it! Because we bear the responsibility of 
bringing light to the darkness and ridding the world of all evil! Small fry will always be small 
fry, so hurry up and disappear after making your scene!" 

The president, who seemed to have bumped his head when he fell, moaned in pain, while his 
members sat by him looking worried. So I think I was the only one who heard Haruhi's edict. 

"Haruhi, it's not that I'm criticizing you " 

Ever since I entered high school, I've forgotten how many times I had tried to hold Haruhi back. 

"You should at least hear what he has to say before beating him up. Well, thanks to you, I don't 
even know why he came here. All I know is that he wants to have a showdown with us on some 
computer game " 

"Kyon! When someone declares a showdown, then it's decided. This is a declaration of war. 
Anything else the loser says are excuses! Who cares about what they say even before we beat 
them!" 

Like a hunter going to check on her prey, Haruhi walked towards the president and said in a 
disrespectful manner, 



£3 

After what was basically a sneak attack and making a flying kick on the president , she landed perfectly 
on the ground and looked extremely pleased with herself. 


Oh, it's you from next door. What's he doing here anyway? 



That's why I said you needed to give him a chance to explain himself. You were the one who 
sent him flying before he could say anything. 

"That's because," Haruhi stuck out her lips, "I thought it was the Student Council coming to drive 
us from our club room. It's probably about time they came as well. Really, why do people come 
to us looking for trouble all the time?" 

"Even if it were the Student Council, there's no need to send people flying." 

As I was trying hard to talk Haruhi out of it 

"Come to think of it, we still haven't held that other activity " 

Koizumi suddenly appeared outside in the corridor and reminded Haruhi about something in 
deep thought. Must you really be such a busybody? 

"Ugh SOS Brigade you really are shameful " 

After moaning for a long time, the president finally managed to stand up, aided by his members 
carrying him, 

"A, anyway, let's have a showdown. I know we don't get along well, so I've prepared a written 
statement. Once you read it, you'll know what the showdown is about." 

One of the members took out a stack of photocopied paper and CD boxes, and walked towards us 
in fear, as though trying to feed the wild lions with raw meat. 

"Thanks." 

Koizumi smiled and received the papers and CDs. 

"We've received the game software, but is there an instruction manual?" 

A second member carried another stack of papers and handed it to Koizumi, then said quietly, 
"President, we've completed our task. Let us return to our club room." 

"Yeah, let's go back." 

He nodded weakly. 

"Then, please excuse us " 

After explaining just part of the events, the president prepared to make his escape, but Haruhi 
grabbed him by his neck and prevented his getaway. 



"Explain everything properly before you leave! Don't think you can shut me up with a stupid 
written statement! Now say it in a language that even this idiot Kyon here can understand!" 

Who are you calling an idiot!? 

As a result, the poor Computer Group president got dragged back into the Literature Club room. 
Before the other Computer Group members could rescue their president, the door was slammed 
shut. 


Unlike Haruhi who is active every month of the year, once the school festival finished, everyone 
else in school reverted back to their normal school lives. However, the Computer Study Group 
seemed to be unsatisfied with this as well and wanted to make it big. Yet right now their 
president was sitting here alone on the steel chair looking terrified, looking like a white mage 
who got separated from his party in a dungeon, and is surrounded by a group of blood-thirsty 
vampires with his MP all used up. He didn't even have the mood to enjoy the tea Asahina brewed 
as Haruhi began her interrogation on him. 

Allow me to briefly list out the points from the interrogation. 

The Computer Study Group president made the following demands: 

1. Showdown with the Computer Group using the computer game they created. 

2. If we win, then the computer sitting on the SOS Brigade's desk will have 
to be returned to its 

original spot . 

3. After all, such an advanced multi-purpose computer is wasted on the SOS 
Brigade. The computer 

should remain in the Computer Group's room in order to maximize its 
potential. So we demand that 

it be returned at once . 

4. When the computer was taken away from us, it has caused a great deal of 
pain for the president 

and his members, it's best to leave this aside. We want to forget it so 
badly, let's pretend it 

never happened. 

5. Due to the reasons above, you must accept our challenge Let us 

battle ! 

The stack of written statements that Koizumi handed to me contained some incomprehensible 
contents which were more or less summarized above. Basically it was a complaint and challenge 
letter combined into one, but I only managed to read the tidy printed lines in the first page before 
Haruhi decided to just hear it first hand from the president. What he was trying to say was really 
simple. 


If you have no use for the computer, then give it back to us. 



The president said. Haruhi replied, 


"Of course we're using it. All the time. We only just used it to edit the movie we made a while 
ago." 

To be precise, I was the only one that ever used it. 

"We even made a website." 

I also made that myself. Besides surfing the internet to kill time and drawing some symbolic 
emblem that was no different from a scribble, Haruhi hardly ever used the computer. 

"All your website ever has after six months is a front page! And you haven't updated it in 
months!" 

The president retorted furiously. So he's the one who regularly visits that website and increases 
the visitor number count. I see, this would explain why he got trapped inside a giant cave cricket 
once. He really is concerned at how much we use the computer. 

"But when I asked you guys for a computer, you said OK. Kyon, you remember as well right?" 

Did I remember? Yes, I can remember clearly Asahina kneeling on the floor sobbing, poor girl. 
But I didn't pay much attention at all to what the president said then. Even if he did agree, he was 
mentally devastated then, so that transaction probably doesn't count. 

"Objection! I'm now making a serious protestation!" 

Looks like the president is serious this time. He crossed his arms and shut his mouth, with the 
determined look of a warrior prepared to die on the battlefield. I thought he has given up after 
half a year already, but his inner flame was still burning brightly. 

"Hmm " Haruhi smiled and nodded. "All right, since you so want to have a showdown with 

us, then I'll accept your challenge. We're betting on the computer right? What are you placing 
your stakes on?" 

"The computer over there, of course, what else would it be? If we lose, then that computer stays 
with you." 

"That computer already belongs to us. There's not much fun in reclaiming what's already ours, 
find something else to bet on ! " 

For some reason I was moved by Haruhi's words, she can always find a way to turn any illegally 
obtained object into her legal possession. Does she intend to become a professional thief? 

However, the president didn't get angry. Instead, he gave a stiff smile, 



"All right. If you win, then we'll give you a new right, we'll give you four computers. They're 

all notebooks, if you're fine with them " 

How brave of you to raise the stakes. Haruhi never expected he would say that, 

"Really? Are you sure?" 

She jumped off from the commander's desk and stared at the president's face. 

"Are you serious about this? If you don't keep your word, I won't forgive you!" 

"You have my word, I'll even sign a declaration of intent." 

Seeing the defiant look on the president, I suddenly understood a bit where his confidence came 
from. 

For some time Nagato had been staring at the CD in her hand. What kind of game it contained, I 
did not know, but one thing was for sure, the Computer Group had poured all their knowledge 
into making this game. Leaving aside the question of whether the Computer Group are all expert 
gamers, they probably think they can crush the amateur SOS Brigade. I think so as well. In a real 
competition, no matter what game it was, it's unlikely we would win. We only won that baseball 
game thanks to Nagato's magic bat, and not because of our abilities. 

However, there's obviously someone in our brigade that just doesn't get it. 

"You don't have any girls in your club, do you?" 

Haruhi asked such a meaningless question all of a sudden. 

"We don't, so what?" The president answered. 

"Don't you want any female members?" 

" N...no." 

The president tried his best to keep composed, while Haruhi smiled evilly like an old lecher, 

"If you win, then I'll reward you with this girl." 

She pointed at Nagato's face. 

"I bet you want a girl in your club, don't you? Yuki's very useful, she has a great memory, and 
behaves herself more than any one of us here." 



You moron! How can you make such a proposal? They offered four computers, while we only 
offered a person, isn't that too little? Besides, there's no way the four computers can match 
Nagato, though I don't think you know that yet. 


Nagato sure looked calm even though she was being used as a betting stake. Without moving, 
she turned her gaze towards me, past Haruhi and landed on the president's face. 

"Huh b...but " 

"What now? You telling me you want to pick Mikuru-chan instead? Or maybe you think your 
four computers aren't enough to buy Nagato-san? Very well, let's have a secondary prize. If we 
win, you'll have to change your club name to 'SOS Brigade North High Second Branch'." 

"Eh wha I " 

Asahina stuttered at hearing Haruhi's words, and instantly froze on the spot. 

"You can go be their trophy if we lose." 

I indignantly turned to Haruhi, 

"Stop treating Nagato and Asahina-san as though they're objects! Why can't you bet on yourself? 
There's a limit to obnoxiousness!" 

"What are you talking about? The commander is the SOS Brigade's holiest and most symbolic 
existence and cannot be desecrated! The commander represents the very nature of the SOS 
Brigade! Besides those that I've chosen, I don't intend to step down from this position!" 

Are you saying you're going to continue your rule over this realm even after you graduate? 

"Besides, no one can make an equivalent trade for me! Not even if they search the corners of the 
earth!" 

Haruhi unreasonably dodged my attacks, pointing first at the silent Nagato and the awestruck 
Asahina as she walked towards the president. 

"Now choose! Which one do you want?" 

As she said that, she glanced towards me and added, 

"If in the end you still want to choose me then all right, you can pick me as well!" 



As expected from the president, who wasn't fooled at all by Haruhi's foolish taunts. I followed 
his line of vision and noticed him glancing at Nagato many times. This I could understand. 


Carrying the crucifiable crime of groping Asahina, the ex-convict naturally didn't feel qualified 
to pick the victim of his crime. On the other hand, Taniguchi told me that Nagato actually has a 
lot of secret admirers, maybe this sort of silent bookish girl is the president's type? The fact that 
he didn't dare raise his head in front of Asahina was another indication. And he was still being 
careful to maintain his image, not wanting to openly declare "I want a girl in my club." So it's 
natural that he picked Nagato. 

What about Haruhi, you say? Ha. Once her eccentric reputation has spread to the whole school, 
the only guys who would pick her are either natural born masochists, or are just weird 
themselves. Of course, they can never match Haruhi in terms of weirdness, so I can breathe a 
sigh of relief at that. 


And so, the stage for the battle had been set. 

The president led his minions out of the Literature Club room and quickly returned. This time 
they carried, if I remember correctly, four notebook computers. At first I thought, how generous 
of them to offer us the prize in advance. It was only then I realized that the game requires five 
computers in order to play. Then, not knowing whether they were members of the Computer 
Group or telecommunication technicians, they swiftly installed LAN cables for Haruhi's desktop 
PC and the remaining four notebook PCs, and then installed the gaming software that they had 
developed onto the machines. From their conversations, I could guess that this was a 5 vs 5 space 
battle simulator. Basically, the SOS Brigade would have five computers, the Computer Group 
would also have five computers, and both would do battle over the same server. It's just that we'll 
be in our club room while they'll be in theirs. 

Of course, the server itself is placed in their room. Hmm, I see. 

"One week of practice for you should be enough?" 

The president looked pleased with the swift efficiency of his members. 

"The battle will commence one week from now at 4 pm. Try and do some practice before then. It 
wouldn't be much fun if our opponents were too weak. " 

He's talking as though he's going to win this. He sounds just like Haruhi in this aspect. And just 
the thought of getting something new is enough to make Haruhi grin from ear to ear. 



"Hmm, I was thinking about getting some new notebook computers as well. Everyone should 
have one, since investment in equipment is one of the key factors in motivating employees." 


I'm not the sort that can be motivated by a mere notebook computer. But since you're giving it to 
me for free, I might as well accept it. 

I drank the tea that has now gone cold and noticed Nagato's expression. She stood alongside 
Asahina against the wall, looking at the Computer Group making their installations with her 
blank face. There was no change in her emotions, looking peaceful as usual. 

I don't think they would place a virus inside their own game, but there's no guarantee that they 
wouldn't. If they did, Nagato would do something about it. As long as she's around, then I can 
relax. No matter what tricks the Computer Group tries to pull, there's no way they can cheat 
Nagato. 

As I played with my empty teacup, Asahina rushed to my side and said, 

"Kyon-kun what what should I be doing? I... I know nothing about machines " 

Her troubled eyes are fixed on the ever increasing number of wires. Well there's really no need to 
worry much. 

"It's only a game, just have fun and play along." 

I comforted her. To be honest, I meant what I said. If the stakes for this showdown were really 
Nagato and Asahina, then I would fight with all my might without hesitation. As for whether 
Haruhi returns the computer that she obtained through trickery, that's a completely different issue 
altogether. For me, the conditions set out by the Computer Group were of low risk and high 
return. That was the difference between the obstacles and confidence of both teams. 

"This is a showdown where we have nothing to lose and everything to gain. That's why Haruhi 
accepted it so quickly." 

I said convincingly, to ease the anxiety of Asahina, I even smiled deliberately. 

"But Suzumiya-san she seems very serious about it..." 

Once the Computer Group members had finished their installation, Haruhi grabbed Koizumi, 
who was holding a stack of papers which seemed to be the game's instruction manual, and went 
to her commander's desk, wanting to try the game right away as she clutched the mouse. 

For some reason, as they left the club room, the other members besides the president all looked 
rather pleased, or should I say rather smug, as though they had accomplished some great 
achievement. 



After that, we tested each of the computers. This testing lasting till sunset, and then we decided 
to call it a day. 


As the five of us walked down the slope from school, I had a conversation with Koizumi. I 
waited till we were yards behind the three girls, then I said to him, 

"A while ago, I decided to just forever seal away a certain sentence from my vocabulary." 



£3 

As the five of us walked down the slope from school, I had a conversation with Koizumi. 

"Really? What was it?" 

"Take a guess." 

Koizumi smiled ironically, and pretended to do some thinking, 

"From your perspective, there aren't a lot of words that you would want to seal away. It can be 

the speechless expression ' ', or 'That's enough!' These are the most appropriate answers, aren't 

they?" 

I kept quiet as Koizumi smiled and answered my question. 

"All right, you win." 

I gave him a shrug of my shoulders and raised my hands as a reward for correctly guessing my 
question. Koizumi pretentiously waved his hands and said, 

"I truly understand how you feel right now." 


Like hell you would understand. 



"No no, you're trying to avoid getting into the same repetitive mood all the time. If you do the 
same stuff all the time, then even if no one else has noticed, over time you'll get tired of it as 
well. It's just like not wanting to play a game that's been played thousands of times so that you've 
become bored of it. You're actually worried what would happen if you become tired of it all. 

This is the same with Suzumiya-san. The difference is that her actions are based on her thoughts, 
while your thoughts are limited by what she does. So, who is the one more relaxed here?" 

What are you analyzing all this like a psychiatrist for? The hole in my heart isn't easily filled by 
your instantly made-up theories, you know. In fact, it ought to be you who should be examining 
your actions. As Haruhi's yes-man, you're the least qualified to analyze me. 

"A yes-man I may be, but I'm staying here out of my own will. Have you forgotten? Though 
Nagato-san, Asahina-san and I represent different factions and ideals, we're all gathered here for 
more or less the same reasons. I don't think you need reminding, my primary mission is actually 
to observe Suzumiya-san." 

That's why I'm feeling depressed. Being dragged into the SOS Brigade for no reason, and then 
strangely following her every whim without question? Give me a break! What sort of conspiracy 
is this? 

"How can I possibly know?" 

Koizumi's playful eyes now looked into me. 

"Actually, it's not just Suzumiya-san. Even you have become our observation target. From now 
on, no matter what you and Suzumiya-san do, I will always take on the challenge with 
trepidation, and treat it as a widening of my vision of this world. I should be thankful to you just 
for this point alone. I'm not joking, I'm really grateful for you two." 

You're not the one suffering, of course you're in the mood to be grateful. 

Since the end of the school festival, my mind's gotten a bit clearer. The mountain winds now 
carry a bit of autumn chill. I just can't like this season. Compared with the ever colder weather as 
the days pass by, Haruhi's tyranny feels so much better. 

It was getting dark. The three girls slowly walked ahead of us, Haruhi was chatting away, 
Asahina nodded in agreement with her from time to time, while Nagato shut off all other 
mechanical functions besides walking. Nagato's bag was bulging, as it contained the notebook 
computer that had been allocated to her. When I asked her what she was taking that home for, 
Nagato placed the game CD-ROM into her bag and said, "Analysis." Looking at her silhouette, I 
suddenly thought of something. 

"Koizumi, I have a suggestion." 


How rare. I'm all ears. 



Just to be safe, I lowered my voice. 

"Can we not cheat during our showdown with the Computer Group?" 

"Your definition of cheating is ?" 

Koizumi also lowered his voice and asked. 

"The stuff Nagato used during the baseball tournament." 

Don't tell me you've forgotten. 

"Let me make this clear, if you have any powers that allow you to manipulate video games in our 
favor, don't use them. And besides supernatural powers, don't use any other methods that would 
constitute as cheating as well ! " 

Koizumi smiled lightly and gave me an inquiring look, 

"Are you up to something? You're saying it doesn't matter if we lose, right?" 

"Yes." 

This I admit. 

"Just this time, don't use any powers or techniques related to aliens, future time travelers or 
espers to cheat. I think it's best to face the showdown properly and accept whatever outcome 
comes our way." 

"And your reason for doing that ?" 

"Even if we do lose, we'll only lose the computer that we stole from them. Besides, it's just being 
returned to its rightful owner. It's not that much of a big deal for us." 

Before returning the computer, I'd better store Asahina's secret photo album somewhere safe 
first. 

"What I wanted to know was not about whether the computer gets returned or not." 

Koizumi said in an intrigued tone, 

"You should know Suzumiya-san's not the sort that likes losing. If we keep showing signs of 
losing during the showdown, she might get frustrated and create a Sealed Dimension. Are you 
really okay with that?" 


I don't care. 



I looked at Haruhi's back. 


"It's about time that girl learns to grow up. She can't have everything her way. Besides, it wasn't 
her who started this fight this time, so I don't think she would be too serious about the outcome." 

I'd better tell Nagato to seal her ESP powers as well tomorrow. Wonder if I should tell Asahina 
as well? Though for someone who admits that she's no good with machines, it's hard to imagine 
what sort of special powers or classified stuff she would use to win this space battle. But I think 
I'll talk to her just to be safe. 

Koizumi giggled quietly, just what is he doing? He sounds gross. 

"No, I wasn't laughing at you. It's just that I'm envious of you." 

What are you envious of me for? 

"I'm envious of the deep level of trust between you and Suzumiya-san." 

What are you talking about? I heard you but I don't get what you mean. 

"Are you playing dumb? Sorry, perhaps you really don't realize it. Suzumiya-san always seems 
to count on you a lot, while you place a great deal of trust in her as well." 

Who are you to tell me who I place my trust in? 

"Let's assume that we really do lose the showdown next week. Yet you believe Suzumiya-san 
won't create a Sealed Dimension as a result. This shows how much you trust her. Similarly, 
Suzumiya-san believes as long as you're around, she can win this showdown. This is also a level 
of trust. She placed her stakes on herself and her own members, because she genuinely believes 
she won't lose. You two may not admit it openly, but it's obvious that you two have developed a 
trustful partnership." 

I fell into a well of silence. Why did I not answer him back for so long? Was it because 
Koizumi's speculation had hit the bullseye in my heart? I'll let the experts deal with whether I 
trust her or not, but I really do believe Haruhi's mental state won't be going out of control all the 
time now. Just look at the events of the past six months. Many things have happened from the 
founding of the SOS Brigade to the making of the movie, and many memories were created. I 
myself have grown a lot since then, I'm sure the same can be said of Haruhi. Otherwise she 
would be the biggest idiot in the world without any hope of salvation. 

"It's worth a try." 

My tongue finally moved to find something to say. 



"If we really lose to the Computer Group, and Haruhi creates a weird and sinister grey world as a 
result, then I really don't care about you guys anymore. This time I might as well join her in 
destroying this world." 

Koizumi smiled casually and said a matter-of-factly, 

"That's what I meant by you guys trusting each other. Now do you understand why I'm envious 
of you?" 

I didn't answer him, paying attention only to my footsteps. Koizumi wanted to add something, 
but realizing I wasn't in the mood to listen anymore, he didn't say anything in the end. 

Forget it, I'm used to seeing Koizumi in deep thought, it's just as normal as Asahina dressing up 
as a maid, and Haruhi's confidence which always seems to come from nowhere. 

It was also as normal as Nagato's near invisible existence I had wanted to say that as well, 

but 


A week later in our battle with the Computer Group, I saw something that was totally 
unexpected. 


The next day after school, we underwent special training using the guys in the room next door as 
our imaginary enemies. 

Officially it's called special training, it's just another excuse for playing video games. Now allow 
me to explain in detail the game which the Computer Study Group has developed. 

<The Day of Sagittarius 3> 

That's the name of this game software. It sounds cool at first, but then you get the feeling of how 
silly it really sounds. Never mind, names don't really matter here, what matters is the software 
itself. If I didn't say that, then the SOS Brigade would lose its meaning of existence. When it 
comes to meaningless names and non-existent founding principles, I don't think any organization 
out there can best our brigade. Anyway, since it's the third installment of the series, that means 
the game has two earlier versions as well. 

First of all, let us delve into the background story for <The Day of Sagittarius 3>. 


The year is unknown, all we know is that it's set in the far distant future. Humans have expanded 
outwards into space and have occupied a sizeable portion of the galaxy already. This is basically 



a galactic-scale space battle set in a solar system. Two space powers have bickered with each 
other over border conflicts, as neither side is willing to back down, a war has been waged. For 
simplicity's sake, one side is called the <Computer Group Federation;^ and the other the <SOS 
Empire>. As for the story, basically both powers, both possessing massive starfleets, have 
thrown all their military might into this endless war for a long time, and ends when one side is 
totally annihilated and the credits roll. Diplomatic and strategic commands don't exist in this 
game as they get in the way of battle, this completely suits Haruhi's preferred mode of battle. 

The opening screen is pitch black, the blue dots flashing at the bottom of the screen are the fleet 
that's controlled by us. The indicators are in the shape of little isosceles triangles. There are five 
of them in total, lined up in a row. This is the total force of the <SOS Empire> under Flaruhi's 
command. One triangle represents 15,000 star destroyers. So there're a total of 75,000 vessels. 
Each fleet is escorted by a small number of supply vessels. The conditions for victory are to 
command these vessels and annihilate the enemy, which also have the same number of vessels. 
But this time the rules are a bit different, and that is to destroy the enemy's commanding fleet - 
for us it would be the Computer Group president's fleet, while for them it would be Haruhi's 
<Commander Haruhi Fleet>. Regardless of the losses sustained or the number of enemy vessels 
destroyed, if one side's commanding fleet is destroyed, then the battle is over. 

We're each allocated one fleet per person, and we can only control the fleet allocated to us. So no 
matter how unreasonable Haruhi gets, there's no way she can interfere with my notebook 
computer. 

One of the main features of this game is its search function. If we don't use this function, there's 
no way we can know what space debris awaits us ahead, let alone track the enemy's position. So 
if we wanted to move our fleet but are afraid of colliding with any unidentified objects, we 
would have to send out intelligence vessels to scout the area ahead and wait for them to return 
before we can analyze the situation ahead. It is that complex. 

The visibility radius for each fleet is only a few centimetres (on the computer screen), if we were 
to move without scouting ahead, then we run the risk of being attacked from an unknown 
direction, and not even knowing where the enemy is. 

On the other hand, the intelligence collected by individual fleets is shared between all allies (I 
think it's set that way). For example, the whole fleet can receive information on what Nagato's 
fleet and her surveillance vessels have detected. In other words, even if I sit back and not do 
anything, I can still see the map slowly expand to reveal the positions of various planets, asteroid 
belts and enemy vessels. 

Despite this, the whole battle map still looks very vast. So being able to swiftly detect the 
enemy's position becomes very important as it's the key to victory. 

There are two weapons available. Lasers and missiles. Lasers can hit any enemy vessels that 
enter its range. Missiles are much slower, but they have a homing device attached. So it's 
impossible to dodge them. In order to survive, one must shoot them down. 



Generally speaking, this is a two-dimensional space battle simulator. As this battle simulator is 
real-time and not turn-based, if one were to play in a relaxed manner, they would be wiped out 
by the enemy in no time, so it's kind of tricky here. 


Facing the imminent battle ahead, we entered gaming mode the whole week. Only Haruhi sat at 
her commander desk using the desktop computer, while the remaining four of us had to stare at 
the notebook computers on the long table, constantly clicking our mice. Looks like this surreal 
scene is going to be part of the SOS Brigade's activities for some time. We first practiced against 
the computer, and even though we had the difficulty set to "VERY EASY", it still took us three 
days to score our first victory. Our progress in gaming skills is just as fast as slowly drilling 
through the earth's crust with an electric drill. 

"Man! I got hit again! This game is driving me crazy!" 

It wasn't just Haruhi, even I was extremely annoyed at getting such a score against the computer. 
But this had nothing to do with the computer difficulty, but rather due to someone who kept 
impatiently charging her fleet into enemy lines and getting annihilated. 

"We're going to have to rework our strategy." 

I moved my eyes away from the screen, which was showing the words "GAME OVER" with 
melancholic music. 

"We'd better reallocate the attributes for each of our fleets, especially your commanding fleet." 

There are three adjustable attributes for each fleet, "Speed", "Defense", and "Attack". Each 
player starts with 100 points, and these points are allocated to the above three attributes at the 
beginning of the game. Like "Speed 30," "Defense 40," and "Attack 30." Haruhi kept adjusting 
her fleet to "Speed 50," "Defense 0," and "Attack 50." As a result, the hull armor on her vessels 
were as thin as paper. I really wanted to tell her, "Don't underestimate the galaxy!" That girl just 
wants to rush in and sink the enemy. Even with me and Koizumi trying to shield her, if her 
commanding fleet gets wiped out as a result, then there won't be a starfleet for her to command. 

"I can't take this anymore! This is so troublesome! What's so fun about this game? Can't it be 
more simple?" 

Despite complaining, Haruhi still decided to restart the game. The screen on my notebook 
computer once again shows the logo for <The Day of Sagittarius 3>. 

Haruhi cheerfully clicked her mouse and said, 



"It would be better if this was a role-playing game. They would play the Evil Dark Lord, while 
I'd be the Fated Hero. It'd be great if we got straight to a boss battle right after the opening 
movie. I've always wondered, why do these bosses always hide in the dungeons? Wouldn't it be 
better for them to appear right at the beginning? I'd certainly do that if I were the Dark Lord. 

That way, the Hero wouldn't need to waste their time wandering around in the dungeon, and the 
story could come to an end quickly." 

I ignored Haruhi's insane ramblings, and looked at what the other members sitting in a row were 
doing. Sitting nearest to Haruhi is the Advising Officer Koizumi, followed by me and Asahina, 
while Nagato sat furthest away. 

"This game is indeed hard to play. Maybe it's because I'm not too familiar with video games. The 
controls are easy, but the commands can get very tricky." 

Koizumi commented in his usual way and gave the same smile as when he was playing Othello. 
On the other hand, Asahina, who still wore her maid costume even though it was not necessary 
for this occasion, said, 

"Uwaa~. I just can't move this as I want it to. This game is set in space, but why are our 
movements limited to the second dimension?" 

She asked such a basic question, while amateurishly moving her mouse. 

I can understand the concerns of these two members, but I was totally mystified by the remaining 
member. 


Nagato Yuki looked at the screen intently like a mathematician trying to solve a highly advanced 
math problem. She was the first to get used to the game; unaffected by Haruhi's fleet charging 
blindly, it was thanks to her precise command of her fleet that we were able to score our first and 
only victory. 

Of course I took precautions. During lunch break I told her not to use any tricks like magic or 
data manipulation. Nagato stared at me for a few seconds, then silently nodded her head. The 
burden on my shoulders instantly lightened a lot. Thanks to this, I was able to take on this game 
without any worries. If we really do beat the Computer Group, then it must be a mistake on their 
part. It's only natural for humans to make mistakes. Yup, I've even prepared excuses to shirk off 
any responsibilities. 

All that's left is to formulate a strategy where we can give the enemy a run for their money, then 
come up with a tragic script where all our efforts end in vain. Oh yes, I must remember to burn 
Asahina's secret photo album onto a CD-ROM as well. 



The week passed by like the tumultuous autumn weather, the fated day has finally arrived. 

Haruhi led us to our seats in the Literature Club room and we waited for the battle to commence. 
The Computer Study Group also stood by in their club room, staring at their monitors, which 
were counting down the seconds before the battle began. 

Before the battle begins, the screen shows the stats for each fleet. It's actually just the names and 
what types of vessels each fleet has. The fleets' vessel counts and positions were classified. 

Starting with the commanding fleet, the Computer Group's fleet names were <Dies Irae>, 
<Equinox>, <Lupercalia>, <Blindness>, and <Muspelheim> respectively. 

Even the names sound so revolting, I have the impression that they had a lot of free time on their 
hands making up such names. However, it seems I wasn't the only one who wasn't interested in 
how they come up with their names. 

"How annoying! From the right side we'll just call them Enemies A, B, C, D, and E. The 
commanding fleet is A." 

Haruhi swiftly gave the enemy fleet their new names, and completely discarded the egotistical 
sounding names. Speaking of which, if you could do that, why not change the name for my 
<Kyon Fleet> as well? 

"The battle's about to begin. Everyone listen up, we must take the initiative, this is only the 
beginning. Our enemy is not only the Computer Group. Only by total annihilation of the enemy 
can the reputation of the SOS Brigade be spread all over the galaxy! Sooner or later, I'll contact 
the Education Ministry and have them set up branches for the SOS Brigade in various public 
schools nationwide. Just ambition alone is not enough, you need to learn to ask for a bigger 
cookie!" 

I wonder what everyone here thinks of Haruhi's megalomaniacal delusions. Koizumi flicked the 
loose muscles on his chin with his thumb; Asahina tucked the sleeves of her maid uniform; I 
pretended do some deep breathing and sighed deeply; while Nagato's brows moved a little bit. 

"Forget it. It's not like we'll lose anyway. I forbid you to show mercy on them! Showing mercy to 
the opponent is the biggest insult to them! If you want to fight, give it your all!" 

I've always wondered, what is the raw ingredient for this confidence? How I wish she would 
share some with me, even two milligrams of it would do. 

"Really? Then let me cheer you up." 


I don't know what was going on in Haruhi's head, as she began staring intently at me. 



I don't know what was going on in Haruhi's head, as she began staring intently at me. 

Don't look at me like that so seriously. No matter how long you look, there's no way I can give 
you a lucky Tarot card. 

And so, we looked at each other for up to ten seconds, in the end I couldn't stand it anymore and 
moved my eyes away first. 

At this moment, 

"Well? You feeling better now?" 

Haruhi gave a victorious smile. I didn't know that sort of staring game can raise one's spirits. 

"I focused my energy into my stare and channeled it into your body! Don't you feel all warm 
right now? You should be sweating now, right? Next time I think I'll do that to anyone who looks 
depressed!" 

I beg you, please don't stare at people like that in front of others anymore, because my mind has 
misinterpreted Haruhi's intention to channel her energy into me as an intention to plot something 
against me. 

"The battle will commence soon." 

Hearing Koizumi's enthusiastic voice, my vision returned to the computer screen. Asahina 
looked nervously at her own screen as she began to mutter to herself, 

" W...what should I do? I don't think I can do this " 

Don't worry, it's just a game. No one's really going to die. Even if there are casualties, it'll just be 
the computer monitors. 

Let us pray that Haruhi won't end up throwing all the computers out of the window in anger. 



1600 hours. 


The marching tune signaled the commencement of the battle for the computer's ownership. 

At first, the <SOS Empire> starfleet had devised the following strategy. 

<Yuki Fleet> would take the vanguard position, with the cKoizumi Fleet> and <Kyon Fleet> 
behind covering the sides. Much further behind would be the <Mikuru Fleet> and cCommander 
Haruhi Fleet>. 

That's it, really. 

Upon being asked to send surveillance vessels to scout the area, Haruhi simply replied, "Too 
bothersome!" since she's only interested in charging forward and destroying the enemy. It was a 
fact that she wasn't going to be of much help even before the two fleets had clashed. 

Asahina was of even less help than Haruhi, so we allocated all the supply vessels to her fleet. 
Hence the triangle indicating the <Mikuru Fleet> was slightly larger than the others, and as a 
result, her movement was much slower. I gave her a clear instruction, "If you are approaching 
the battle lines, hurry up and get away." I believed that to be the most suitable action for her. 

Besides, Haruhi's fleet attributes have now been set to "Speed 20," "Defense 60," "Attack 20." 
This was mainly due to the fact that if Haruhi's fleet gets destroyed, we would lose the battle, so 
raising her defenses became a priority. Fighting in the front lines, Nagato, Koizumi and my fleets 
were all given even attributes of "Speed 33", "Defense 33", "Attack 34". It was arranged this way 
because we had intended for Haruhi to stay behind while we buy time for her. But in no time, the 
situation has now become like what was described in the beginning of this story. 

Right now, as I had mentioned to everyone in the beginning, the simulation battle between the 
Computer Study Group and the SOS Brigade is imminent. 

"All right then, I'll retreat to the back first while you take care of the enemy. Mikuru-chan, let's 
sit back and watch the show." 


"Ah o...okay " 

Sitting to my right, Asahina nodded her head obediently, then said in her sweet and soft voice, 
"Good luck, Kyon-kun." 

That was really an effective motivational call. If the commanding fleet was the <Mikuru Fleet>, 
then I would block all the missiles that came her way, without hesitation. Yet I had to be in 
charge of protecting that tyrannic despot. If I were a feudal lord with a sizeable military force of 
my own, I would definitely turn against her. Sadly, this game doesn't provide a "Mutiny" option. 
Oh well, I'll just have to do my best and take on the enemy ahead. 



1615 hours. 


Nagato suddenly began typing fast on the keyboard. She was so fast, it was hard to see with the 
naked eye, literally. It looked as though she regarded the mouse to be too inconvenient. I don't 
know when she began, but Nagato had created her own Macro program for <The Day of 
Sagittarius 3>, allowing her to command her fleet more directly through the keyboard. Thanks to 
this, the bravery and tenacity of the <Yuki Fleet> was certainly an eye-opener. Its ferociousness 
in battle could probably match that of Belisarius of the Byzantine Empire under Emperor 
Justinius' rule. Unfortunately, they were badly outnumbered. 

The only fleets engaged in battle for our side were the <Yuki Fleet>, cKoizumi Fleet> and 
<Kyon Fleet>. The enemy had four fleets engaging us, save their commanding fleet <Dies Irae> 
(Enemy A) which was hidden. From all the past battles, we have learned one basic lesson: the 
outcome is usually decided by the numbers of both sides. Being three against four, our chances 
of uncorking the champagne bottle to celebrate were very slim. Our chances would hardly 
increase even if we threw Haruhi's and Asahina's fleets into the front line. If we did that, it would 
just make the enemy's work of destroying us all at once much easier. 

"The enemy seems to be luring us with a crane wing formation." 

Advising Officer Koizumi whispered to me, 

"If we chase them, we'll fall right into their trap. I suggest we stay put and concentrate on our 
defenses, what do you think?" 

It's useless telling me, I think it's a good idea, but what matters is Haruhi's opinion. 

Besides 

I looked over Asahina's shoulders and at Intelligence Officer Nagato's face. 

I don't know what the reason was, but Nagato was surprisingly more proactive than usual. Her 
face was as blank as always, yet, since the battle began, her eyes had been fixed on the screen, 
and the vessels of the <Yuki Fleet> were already in active battle. What inner emotion of Nagato's 
had <The Day of Sagittarius 3> triggered? 

"Analysis" - Nagato hadn't been lying when she said that. This emotionless alien-created living 
humanoid interface has now fully understood the Computer Study Group's self-developed game 
like the back of her hand. She probably knows the game better than its original creators. As long 
as she is here, all computers created by modern Earth civilizations are like antique clocks made 
before the Industrial Revolution for her, and can be dealt with easily. 



Yet, Nagato's pupils have gone from her usual glowless obsidian black to a glittering chromed 
silver color. I was beginning to miss her old self 


Showing an energy never seen before, Nagato continued typing on the keyboard, with swift 
motions. Her eyes were moving around the screen, never stopping once. She had discarded the 
Graphical User Interface for the game and had opened a small window of her own, where she 
insanely keyed in her commands nonstop. 


The <Yuki Fleet> moved swiftly, constantly sending out surveillance vessels which worked hard 
searching for the enemy fleet's position. We now knew that ahead of our empire's fleet lay 
<Enemy B> and <Enemy C>. Nagato engaged them both on the front line, all on her own. I'd 
better go and help her, I can't just stay behind and watch. 

Just as I was about to move, the <Kyon Fleet> got showered by a rain of lasers from its side. 
"What the...!?" I exclaimed. 

"Ah. ..damn!" Koizumi shouted as well. 

I looked carefully and noticed that the cKoizumi Fleet> was under heavy bombardment on its 
port side. <Enemy D> and <Enemy E> had suddenly come out of nowhere and attacked us both 
left and right. In no time, the vessel count for the <Kyon Fleet> had dramatically decreased. 

"What the hell are you doing!?" 

Haruhi yelled at me using a yellow loudspeaker. 

"Now go retaliate properly for me! Show them what we've got!" 

I'd do that even without your reminding. These guys sure are gaming professionals, to be able to 
sneak through Nagato's surveillance network, but we can't go on getting beat like this. 

I gave the command for the <Kyon Fleet> to change directions. At once the entire fleet turned 90 
degrees to the right. Then, when I had locked down the enemy within my shooting range, I 

fired but, just as I tried to do that, <Enemy E> quickly turned around and disappeared into 

the darkness of space. Now that pissed me off, and I sent out surveillance vessels to scout for his 
position, but I could not find a single enemy vessel. 

"Damn, they got away." 

It seems like they have employed a hit-and-run strategy using fleets with high "Speed" attributes. 
<Enemy D>, which was attacking the port side of the cKoizumi Fleet> also took its cue and 
disappeared without a trace. Now I get it, Enemies <B> and <C>, which were engaged in battle 
with the cYuki Fleet>, were diversions, while their main forces were <D> and <E>. In that case, 



their commanding fleet, <Enemy A> doesn't even have to fight and can hide safely in the depths 
of the galaxy. That seems to be their overall strategy. 


"Wah — - I'm scared — " 

Despite her clumsy movements, Asahina had precisely steered her fleet to the corner of the 
screen. Though she was a bit too far away to be able to provide supplies to our fleet's depleting 
defenses. Even then, at this rate, our fleet would be wiped out before we would even have to 
worry about running out of energy and missile supplies. The cComputer Group Federation> had 
seized the initiative. 

From then on, like wild dogs returning constantly to the scent of a sweet bone, <Enemy D> and 
<Enemy E> continued to harass the <Kyon Fleet> and cKoizumi Fleet> with their hit-and-run 
tactics. Every time we gave chase, they would release their homing missiles and disappear 
without a trace. We were currently struggling to deal with these frustrating tactics. Slowly 
depleting our strength while avoiding a one-on-one showdown is the sort of tactic that Haruhi 
hates most. 

On the other hand, fighting on its own, the <Yuki Fleet> has tactically evaded the wave attacks 
of <Enemy B> and <Enemy C>, and provided us with some much needed relief. If it hadn't been 
for her fleet, we would already be floating in the galaxy as space debris. Even if we should lose 
this battle, she should at least get an award for bravery. 


Nagato didn't even look like she was breathing as she stared into her screen; never once did her 
hands stop typing on the keyboard. I bet the guys from the Computer Group were looking 
surprised as well, since I was surprised myself. 

Has Nagato been infected with Haruhi's unyielding attitude? 


1630 hours. 

The situation has now gone from bad to worse. 

Realizing that the <Yuki Fleet> wasn't easy to deal with, only <Enemy B> stayed behind to take 
on Nagato. With the exception of the their commanding fleet <Enemy A>, whose whereabouts 
were still unknown, the remaining three fleets have now begun a well-timed wave attack on us 
from our left and right. I was impressed with how well Enemies <C>, <D>, and <E> were 
coordinated, when <C> was targeted, <D> would come out to attack; and when we gave chase to 
<D>, <E> would fire its lasers at us. Dealing with their diversionary hide and seek methods, I 
had the impression I was taking on seasoned professionals and was certainly not enjoying it at 



all. I really wanted to ask them to not push too far, but when I remembered this battle concerns 
the fate of a few computers, I sort of sympathized with them. 


Yet our situation was not optimistic at all. Like I said before, our chances of losing were near 
90%, but I had wanted to lose in blazing glory. At least allow our ships to sink gloriously in the 
midst of all the glittering explosions. I mean, can't you give us the feeling that "we lost, but that 
sure was fun, and we did our best"? 

But look at this! We're now dying a slow and ignominious death! 

"I can't take this any longer!" 

I should say this was expected, Haruhi now gave her commanding fleet a simple command. 

"All fleets full speed ahead! Kyon, get out of my way! I'm going to find their leader and beat the 
crap out of him before returning victoriously!" 

As the cCommander Haruhi Fleet> wanted to speed past the <Kyon Fleet> and cKoizumi 
Fleet>, we both quickly surrounded her fleet in a fish like formation. 

"What are you doing!? Koizumi-kun, are you trying to stop me from destroying the enemy as 
well? I order you to back off at once, or you'll be relieved of your duty as Advising Officer!" 

"I certainly do not intend to get in your way, Commander." 

Koizumi may have said that, but he had no intention of giving the command to move his fleet 
off. 

"Commander, please allow us to take charge of this situation. I am willing to risk my life in 
protecting Your Excellency to the very last moment. As for my punishment, I'll let Your 
Excellency decide that once the battle is over." 

"That's right." 

I decided to help Koizumi. 

"If you really want to raise our chances of winning, then stay put. Besides, we still haven't found 
their commanding fleet." 

"That's why I have to go search! He should be around here " She pointed at a spot on her 

screen, though we of course couldn't see anything from our seats. " I guess. I'm going to go 

there in a straight line, and then have a one-on-one battle between us leaders!" 

I don't know where she's headed, but I fear that before she gets there, the cCommander Haruhi 
Fleet> will become like a beehive that gets attacked by a bear before its winter hibernation. 



Haruhi now clutched her mouse and ordered her fleet to charge forward as though trying to pick 
a fight with someone. 


"That's why staying put isn't going to help a lot! What the hell!? Your <Kyon Fleet> just keeps 
letting the enemy run away! And your forces are depleting as well! Looks like I need to move 
out after all!" 

"That's why I'm telling you to stay put first!" 

I commanded my own fleet and blocked the path of the commanding fleet, Koizumi did the same 
thing without saying a word. Perhaps realizing the situation we were in, the three cComputer 
Group Federation> fleets continued their hit-and-run tactics, while Asahina's <Mikuru Fleet> 
was now lost in some unknown corner of the galaxy. 

"W... where is this place? Oh dear — . I can't even tell left from right anymore " 

Sitting to my right, Asahina continuously looked into her screen and mine. She was close to tears 
as she said, 

"Where is everybody " 

I'm so sorry. Please just wander wherever you like and continue to be a lost child. It's for your 
own good. 

Thanks to the cCommander Haruhi Fleet> getting stuck on the backside of the <Kyon Fleet>, I 
was unable to move and have basically become a shield for Haruhi's fleet. Wave after wave of 
attack has made my fleet's triangle indicator shrink smaller and smaller. 

"Out of my way!" 

I couldn't even if I wanted to. The ungrateful cKoizumi Fleet> had already dodged aside before 
Haruhi rammed her fleet into mine, pretending to be busy engaging with <Enemy D>, while 
leaving the troublesome task of stopping Haruhi to me. 

I tried my best to move my fleet, which was now merged with the cCommander Haruhi Fleet> 
and clicked my mouse frantically, trying to drag it to a suitable spot on the screen. The ever 
shrinking triangle representing the cKyon Fleet> now changed direction at a snail's pace. But as 
snails move very slowly, my fleet was constantly being locked on to and hit by enemy lasers and 
missiles. 

This is it, we're done for. 

Even if I had to raise the white flag, I was left with no choice. Please try to understand, our 
commander was simply too dumb, even if we had a very slim chance of winning. I think I should 
have deserted her already before the battle began. No matter what the situation, if the leader isn't 



calm, then there's no way an organization can work efficiently. I may not know the details, but 
hasn't it always been like that? 

As I continued to bicker with Haruhi both in the real world and the virtual world, the most far- 
sighted and calmest member of the SOS Brigade continued to battle on. 

That's what I thought at first. 

I later realized that wasn't the case, because the member sitting farthest away on the long table 
suddenly increased the speed of her fingers, so fast that if I didn't record it with a high-speed 
camera and play it in super slow motion, it would be nearly impossible to see clearly what was 
going on. 

Being frustrated to the point of losing her cool had always been Haruhi's privilege. But this time, 
this rule may not be entirely accurate. 

Right now, the one showing more passion than anyone of us here is none other than the pride of 
the SOS Brigade, the knowledgeable Intelligence Officer, bookworm and original Literature 
Club member 


Nagato Yuki. 


1635 hours. 

"Whoa!?" 

An unbelievable scene unfolded before my eyes, and I gave a foolish yell as a result. 

"What the hell just happened?" 

The visible areas in the map of the <SOS Empire> have now expanded to three times their 
previous size. The positions of Enemies <C>, <D> and <E>, which kept appearing and 
disappearing, can now be clearly seen. One of them was on the left wing preparing to fire lasers 
at Koizumi's fleet; another moved off and turned around again, preparing to make its next attack; 
while the third one had the immobile <Kyon Fleet> and cCommander Haruhi Fleet> locked in 
its firing range. As for why the enemies' position could be clearly seen, this was because 

The <Yuki Fleet> had divided itself into twenty fleets. 


This is too incredible! 



Koizumi's praises sounded empty to me. 


"As expected from Nagato-san to notice this feature. I had thought of using it as well, but as it 
was too complicated, I gave up before even trying." 

"Wait, Koizumi," I said, "Is this feature even in the instruction manual?" 

"Of course! It's right at the back. You want me to teach you? First hold down the Ctrl and F4 
key, then decide the number of fleets you want your fleet divided into " 

"N...no thanks, I don't think I'll ever use it." 

I once again examined the screen. 

The triangle representing the <Yuki Fleet> had shrunk dramatically as if being shone on by some 
strange light. Replacing it were twenty small triangles of equal sizes. I moved my mouse cursor 
over one of the small triangles, and it indicated the words <Yuki Subfleet 12>. 

Subfleet? 

Of the little triangles labeled 01 to 20, some continued to engage themselves with <Enemy B>, 
some sneaked past the gaps in the enemies' defenses to scout the unknown areas of space, while 
others either flew around or came to support the struggling <Kyon Fleet>. 

Koizumi, would you please care to explain? 

"Well this function allows you to divide a single fleet into two or more subfleets and give 

them separate commands. The most you can divide into is twenty-seven, if I remember correctly. 
That's what the instruction manual said." 

"What're the advantages in doing that?" 

"As you have seen, the area being scouted would increase, it's like having twenty extra pairs of 
eyes. Besides this feature, another advantage is that by dividing your fleet, you could have one 
subfleet act as bait while the other can sneak behind and ambush the enemy. But this feature 
seems to be too complicated, which is why even the Computer Study Group didn't use it." 

Koizumi leaned his face towards me and said in a voice which Haruhi couldn't hear, 

"This is because these multiple subfleets can only be controlled by one player. Because when 
you concentrate on one single subfleet, it's not possible to look after the other subfleets, which 
would basically be immobile puppets. It simply is impossible for a human to command twenty or 
more subfleets." 

I imagined the horrified looking faces of the people next door, and then turned my head 
sideways. 



Hey, Naga. 


The sound of Nagato hitting the keyboard no longer gave the usual clattering noise, but now 
sounded like all the keys were being slammed at the same time. 

"U...um won't you break the keyboard if you hit it so hard ?" 


Asahina asked looking terrified at Nagato, but Nagato didn't even look at her. Her eyes were 
fixed on the screen, which was no longer showing the game graphics, but a black background 
with a bunch of letters, numbers and symbols, which reminded me of those BIOS interface 
screens from the computers of the dinosaur age. What's more, the words and symbols were 
scrolling by at an incredible speed. 



£3 

Her eyes were fixed on the screen, which was no longer showing the game graphics, but a black 
background with a bunch of letters, numbers and symbols... the words and symbols were scrolling by at 
an incredible speed. 

"What is it?" 

Nagato asked me without even turning her head. 

" Um, I " 

Na, Nagato-san? May I ask what you're doing right now? 

I now felt an invisible pressure emanating from the aura of Nagato's slamming of the keyboard. 
Even my mutterings were now becoming polite. 

I reconfirmed what I saw on my screen, the twenty <Yuki Subfleets> were like animated tea 
leaves being granted with life, toying around with the enemy. There was no problem with the 
game interface no, wait a minute, didn't I specifically told her not to cheat? 

"I didn't." 

Nagato replied. For the first time she turned and looked at me, while her hands remained busy as 
usual. 



I did not perform any data manipulation. I have obeyed the rules of the game as you told me to. 


As if afraid of being scanned by Nagato's vision, Asahina inadvertently backed off. Nagato's 
eyes were now staring straight into mine. 

"I did not carry out any actions beyond the limits of this simulation game." 

"I... I see. Sorry for doubting you." 

I felt a terrible aura now rising from her short hair. 

Yet, Nagato's expression and gaze remained the same, not carrying any emotions at all. 
Normally, she would reply in a calm tone, "I see." And then fall into silence. But this time she 
gave me an unexpected reply. 

A very shocking reply indeed. 

"It is the people from the Computer Study Group whose actions could be considered as cheating, 
not mine." 


At the same time, Haruhi's fleet broke through the protective barrier of the <Kyon Fleet>. 

"Too slow! Why is it so slow? Would it be faster if I poured some mineral water over the 
computer?" 

She may have been complaining, but Haruhi couldn't hide her excitement at finally being able to 
move. 

I leaned forward over Asahina and quietly asked Nagato, 

"What do you mean when you said they're cheating?" 

Without stopping her high speed typing, Nagato replied without any emotion, 

"They are using commands not present on our computers, giving them an advantage over this 
virtual galactic battlefield." 

"What commands?" 

Nagato fell silent for a while, as if trying to reorganize her thoughts and blinked, 


Their search mode is turned off. 



After saying this, she then explained further in a calm tone. 

According to Nagato, the Computer Study Group had set their battle mode with "Search Mode 
Off" at the beginning of the battle, while we had no such option available to us. But I still don't 
understand what the difference was between "On" and "Off". What does it mean really? 

"When search mode is turned on, the players would have to scout the area ahead on their own. 
When it's off, they wouldn't need to do any searching. They have nullified their search mode, 
rendering it obsolete." 

Erm could you please elaborate further? 

"When search mode is off, the whole map would be shown." 

In other words 

"From the beginning, they could see the whole map of the galaxy, including the location of all of 
our fleets." 

For Nagato, that was the simplest, most straightforward way of explaining it. 

"That is not all." 

The alien-created living humanoid interface continued without smiling. 

So, the vessels of the cComputer Group Federation> even have teleportation devices built into 
them. No wonder they could disappear at will. The <SOS Empire> is at least 500 years behind 
them technologically. It's like the samurai infantry of the Sengoku period facing off against the 
Self-Defense Force artillery. There's just no way of winning. 

"That is correct." 

Nagato also confirmed what we already knew, 

"Besides losing, we didn't have any other choice." 

Didn't? Nagato was using past tense. So, what about now? When I was hoping she would change 
to present tense, I noticed Nagato's obsidian eyes revealing a stirring emotion I had not seen 
before. I sat back upright and said, 

"But Nagato, I still hope to continue playing this game without the use of any alien powers. I 
know those guys are cheating, but that is also why we mustn't resort to cheating with magic as 
well, or we would be no different from them. No, we would be worse then they're, since your 
magic isn't even within the bounds of this Earth." 


I will not go against your instructions. 



Nagato replied immediately, 


"I was trying to rewrite the program under the boundaries of current Earth technology. I promise 
you, I will not manipulate any existing data information. I will take measures to counter the 
Computer Study Group within the limits of human ability. Please allow me to do that." 

Are you asking me? 

"The one who placed a limit on my data manipulation abilities is you." 


I've known this girl for nearly half a year already. During this time, I've noticed beneath her 
emotionless face that she was experiencing some very minor emotional changes - that is if she 
had any emotions - but I do have a certain degree of confidence in this. At that moment, I saw 
revealed on Nagato's pale face, in microscopic proportions, a very determined look. 

Asahina looked at me, terrified. Koizumi also looked at me, but with a smile of course. Only 
Haruhi was shouting something, firing away her lasers and missiles. At this rate she'll run out of 
ammo and will be surrounded by enemies. There isn't much time for me to decide. 

How should I decide? I hesitated for a few seconds, it's rare for Nagato to be so passionate. I 

think this is the first time I've ever seen her like this. I was considering whether this was a good 
thing or not. She may be a living humanoid interface created by the Integrated Data Sentient 
Entity, that resembles a human in every way, but as with the most perfect artificial intelligence, 
there may come a day where even she would desire to be human herself. 

Never once did I believe that this wasn't a good thing. 

"Very well, Nagato. Go ahead and do it." 

I gave an encouraging smile and slapped my chest to reassure her, 

"As long as it's within the confines of human ability, then you're welcome to do whatever you 
please. Give those guys at the Computer Group the scare of their lives. If you can scare them into 
not daring to ever demand compensation from us again, which is what Haruhi would like to see, 
even better." 

Nagato stared at me for quite a long time - at least for me it felt like a long time. 

"I see." 

A simple response later, Nagato hit the Enter key. Just like that, the tables were instantly turned 
in our favor. 



1647 hours. 


The cunning trap has now been laid. 

Though the sudden change in situation had me speechless, my level of astonishment was merely 
that of a rookie Shaolin monk who has just begun his training; it was nothing compared with that 
of the Computer Study Group, who were probably now in total pandemonium as if Wall Street 
had just crashed. 

This was all thanks to Nagato's cloning techniques. I was really grateful that Nagato was on the 
same side as I was. I even thought of buying one or two presents to thank our mighty goddess 
Nagato. Maybe I'll get her an interesting book next time. Speaking of which, when is her 
birthday? 

No matter, we can discuss those details later. For now let us return to the present situation. 

As if the players' fears were being manifested in the virtual world, the enemy fleets on the screen 
all stopped moving one by one. 

It seems Nagato has hacked into the Computer Group's five computers using her notebook 
computer and directly rewritten the program for <The Day of Sagittarius 3>. Don't ask me how 
she did it, how should I know? I may not have understood that part, but I was sure what her sole 
objective was, and that was to forcefully turn on the search mode for the enemy as well. As a 
result, the visible map of the cComputer Group Federation> would have shrunk dramatically, 
and the shrouded areas on their screen would be increasing as well. Before that, they had had no 
need to send out any surveillance vessels, and in fact they have never done so, according to our 
Intelligence Officer. 

After locking the enemies' search mode into the "On" position, Nagato went further and rewrote 
the game's source code and had it locked as well. Now no one else was able to change the code 
besides herself. However, she didn't delete the teleportation function, but instead made some 
minor adjustments and executed these changes. This was part of a little plan that Nagato had 
thought up. 

She did all of the above while commanding her twenty subfleets at the same time, and without 
using any mysterious alien powers to boot. Even within the boundaries of human ability, she was 
already exceptional. 

"Excellent, now comes our chance for retaliation." 

Koizumi carried a happy smile and commented on the current situation on the screen, 



"Please have a look here, Enemies <C> and <D> have been intercepted by the various <Yuki 
Subfleets>, and have lost track of our positions. <Enemy E> is currently engaged in combat with 
us. As for <Enemy B>, he will soon enter the firing range of the cCommander Haruhi Fleet>." 

"Enemy sighted!" 

Haruhi's excited yell was proof of Koizumi's accurate commentary. 

"Fire! Fire! Fire! Fire!" 

Haruhi continued to yell like a maniac, her forehead nearly hitting the screen. 

The cCommander Haruhi Fleet> has been released from its sealed state and is now firing on all 
cylinders, releasing all its lasers and missiles and charging towards the enemy. The terrified 
cEnemy B> quickly turned around and tried to escape, but my cKyon Fleet> was already 
waiting for it. 

"Oh no you don't." 

I moved my finger and clicked, releasing all the lasers I had at cEnemy B>. 

"Damn it Kyon! That's my prey! Back off!" 

Attacked from both sides, the fleet size of cEnemy B> was quickly decimated. The indicator for 
cEnemy B> then made a small buzzing noise and began to blow up like fireworks, marking its 
farewell from the screen. 

Looking for her next prey, Haruhi now moved her mobile weapon discharging fleet to the side of 
cEnemy E>. Already struggling with Koizumi's fleet, cEnemy E> now had to take on two fleets, 
and its vessel count decreased dramatically. 

Now in a desperate situation, cEnemy E> finally decided to throw all honor out of the window, 
and for the first time used the hidden command only they know of in front of the cSOS Empire> 
starfleet. 

"Hey! It's disappearing! Wha...How is this possible!?" 

Haruhi shouted, I knew the moment had finally come. Under heavy bombardment from both 
ends, cEnemy E> began to slowly disappear from its spot. 

That was its teleportation function. Though strictly speaking, it should be called something else, 
since there's no such thing as teleportation in this day and age. 

However, they had fallen straight into Nagato's elaborate trap. 


Huh? Something else's coming out this time. 



When Haruhi asked that question, I had already stopped what I was doing. 


"Wah?" 

Asahina made her cute scream, blinking her eyes and staring at her screen. 

"Kyon-kun, that thing I'm controlling, I don't know where it went " 

<Enemy E> wasn't the only one being teleported. With the exception of the cCommander Haruhi 
Fleet>, which remained in its original spot, all other fleets on both camps have now undergone 
spatial transportation. 

This is because Nagato had rewritten the program as: "Once the Computer Group utilizes the 
teleport option, then with the exception of the cCommander Haruhi Fleet>, all fleets from both 
camps will be forcefully teleported. After teleportation, they would appear at their designated 
spots." 

This is called "An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth." Only that our cheating was much more 
subtle. 

Right now, I guess the chaos in the room next door should be even greater than when their search 
mode was forcefully turned on. Because appearing on my screen was the enemy's commanding 
fleet cEnemy A> (originally called Dies something) making its first ever appearance. I 
confirmed its location and shrugged my shoulders, 

"I guess this is what they call karma." 

The Computer Group president's cEnemy A> was now right in front of the cCommander Haruhi 
Fleet>. Right behind it was the cMikuru Fleet>, which had also been teleported, and was 
unscathed. Its starboard was now being targeted by the cKoizumi Fleet>, which had been 
teleported a few inches, targeting its left was now the recombined cYuki Fleet>, and hanging 
around nearby was the nearly obsolete cKyon Fleet>, which had shrunk a lot from its original 
size. As for the other fleets of the Computer Group, they were now scattered across the four 
corners of the galaxy. Even if they rushed back at full speed, there was nothing they could do to 
help. 

And so, cEnemy A> was now completely surrounded by the entire fleet of the cSOS Empire> 
and had no means of escape. 

"I don't know what on earth's going on, but " 

Haruhi now revealed a very exhilarated look and raised her hand, 

"All forces fire at will! Cleanse the enemy's commander in the fires of hell!" 



Under her command, Haruhi, Koizumi, Nagato and I all emptied our fleets' weaponry at the 
same time. Even Asahina, who shuddered at the cold voice of Nagato going, "Fire," frantically 
made her first ever attack of the day on the surrounded <Enemy A>. 

"I'm so sorry " Asahina said. 

The Computer Study Group president was completely taken by surprise. He probably had wanted 
to hide in a safe spot to enjoy the show, only to first have everyone's search mode forcefully 
turned on, and then get suddenly transported right in the middle of the enemy fleet to die. 

"Sigh " 

Sigh. I quickly withheld the words I was about to say. Koizumi gave me a cheeky smile. I'm 
going to pretend I didn't see that. 

I turned again to my screen, the president's <Enemy A> fleet was now being showered by lasers 

and missiles, like a capsized turtle struggling to move around. Well he pretty much deserved 

it. They were the ones who cheated first. Though later on we cheated even more thanks to 
Nagato Yuki, so we weren't qualified to criticize him too much. 

Nagato never stopped keying the firing commands into her keyboard. The vessel count of 
<Enemy A> was decreasing at the same rate as our ammo count. Finally the <Yuki Fleet> fired a 
laser beam with an error margin of a few decimal points and decimated the remaining few enemy 
vessels with perfect precision. That was the last thing the enemy fleet saw before meeting its 
demise. 

A light marching tune began to play, and the flashing words on our screens signaled that the 
battle had finally ended. 

"YOU WIN!" 


1711 hours. 

Ten minutes after the battle had concluded, someone came knocking on our club room door. 

Rushing in looking abashed were the guys from the Computer Study Group. The president said 
in a dispirited tone, 


"We've lost, we've been completely beaten. We now offer our surrender. I'm terribly, terribly, 
sorry, please forgive us. We've totally underestimated you, and we've made a mistake, a very 
terrible mistake." 



Standing in front of the apologetic president, whose head had bowed so low looking like a 
sundial, was Haruhi carrying a beaming smile. Under the watchful gaze of the Lord Haruhi, the 
Computer Group members quickly went pale and fell silent. 

"You've even discovered our little tricks it's true that we employed dishonest methods, but 

we never thought that the source code could be rewritten right in the midst of the battle it 

was unbelievable, but it really happened " 

The president looked wearily around the room as if entering another virtual world. Haruhi raised 
one of her brows and said, 

"What the hell you muttering about? I have no time to hear excuses from sore losers. You still 
remember our agreement?" 

She joyfully waved her finger, giving an indication that read Don 't think you can get away with 
this. Completely indulged in the joys of victory, Haruhi never felt that the battle was won too 
unnaturally. For this girl, a victory is a victory. 

"I bet you have nothing to say right now. The desktop here is now mine, as well as those four 
notebook computers over there. Don't tell me you've forgotten ever saying that, if you did, then 
I'll have to sentence you to a horrible death! Right, I think I'll give you a smaller sentence, go run 
ten laps around the school field naked and shout 'I'm being chased by little green men!"' 

Haruhi's unreasonable demands now made the members of the Computer Study Group droop 
their heads even lower. I don't know if I should pity them, or whether it's just the atmosphere 
being too tense 

"Ah yes, I'll go brew some tea for everyone." 

The ever understanding Asahina now stood up and walked towards the kettle, while Koizumi 
smiled sardonically and helped take out some paper cups. Nagato continued to sit in her steel 
chair, looking emotionlessly at the dejected and broken guys now standing in a row in front of 
Haruhi. 

As Haruhi enthusiastically made her speech, one of the members, the president that is, walked 
slowly towards me. 

"Hey," he whispered to me, "Who was that person? With such elite hacking skills, they could go 
anywhere in the world actually, I think I've guessed who it is " 

Nagato lifted her head to look at me, while the president turned to look at Nagato. 

Oh well. Even an outsider can tell that Nagato is the brightest of us all. 


I need to talk to you. 



The president said to Nagato, 


"Whenever you're free, would you mind coming over to the Computer Study Group to hang 
out I mean, help out occasionally?" 

He began his persuasion. A while ago, he was still looking like a dead fish being left to dry in the 
sun, and now he was suddenly back to life again. This usually happens to people who have 
surrendered completely, when they quickly throw all dignity out of the window. 

Nagato now looked as though she'd had a motor installed inside of her. First she looked at the 
president, then turned to look at me. She didn't say anything, and just stared at me with those 
dark crow-like pupils, giving me a questioning gaze. 



£3 

Nagato now looked as though she'd had a motor installed inside of her. First she looked at the president, 
then turned to look at me... giving me a questioning gaze. 


What's she doing? Transmitting telepathic waves? Or does she want me to decide for her? You're 
putting me in a difficult position with that expression of yours (though there's no expression at 
all). He was asking you, surely you could decide on your own? It ought to be like that. 

As learned from Nagato, I tried to reply with a speechless gaze 

"Hey! What do you think you're doing?" 

Haruhi now came and interfered, 

"Our Yuki's not for you to borrow so easily! You'll have to ask me first!" 

Haruhi sure has a talent for eavesdropping, she had heard everything that was being said. 
Looking at her with her hands on her hips, I even wanted to commend her. 

"Now listen up! This silent girl is an irreplaceable member of the SOS Brigade. I laid claim to 
her first, so she's not going anywhere!" 

In the beginning, you actually laid claim to the Literature Club room, not Nagato. 



"What difference does it make? I wanted both the club room and Yuki from the beginning. 
Everything in this club room, even a stale bottle of coke, is mine and is not for sale!" 

Mine , all mine! Haruhi puffed up her sailor uniform and proclaimed her sovereignty over the 
room fearlessly. 

"Umm, hold it," 

I gave it some consideration and finally said. 

I may not look it, but I'm confident that I understand Nagato's expressions better than anyone 
else. After all, I actually met Nagato three years ago. Though Nagato has been flawless in 
withholding all emotions, I've still felt that she isn't entirely emotionless. I noticed it when she 
was stuck in the endless summer vacation, and I felt it as well during this showdown. Oh yeah, 
I've nearly forgotten, it was the same during our time in the public library as well. 

Even Nagato would have things that she is fond of. 

Come to think of it, during our <The Day of Sagittarius 3> showdown with the Computer Group, 
the one showing most enthusiasm was Nagato, and not Haruhi. Looking at how she typed in her 
commands on the keyboard, I knew she was pouring even more passion into this game than into 
her reading. Though I had no idea of knowing whether that was a side effect of requesting her 
not to use her powers to cheat. But I just felt she really enjoyed herself when she was keying in 
the commands. If she had a new hobby besides reading, I think it should be encouraged. Instead 
of staying in the SOS Brigade headquarters as an ornament all the time, it would be a good thing 
if she tried to experience school life more often and interacted with other people. 

I would think Nagato gets tired of observing Suzumiya Haruhi all day. Even alien-created living 
humanoid interfaces need to take a break occasionally. 

"Go ahead and do whatever you please." 

Today, I decided to take the president's side. 

"You like computers, right? Then, whenever you feel like it, go play with them as much you 
want. Even if it's just helping them detect bugs in their own developed games, I'm sure they'll be 
very grateful. And you probably have a better chance of getting in touch with advanced gaming 
tools if you go there." 

Nagato remained silent, but I noticed a slight shaky movement in her face. She seemed to be 
asking me whether it was actually fine or what she should do. Her dark candy-like eyes revealed 
the same sort of hesitation shown when not knowing which move to make in a chess game. 


It felt like she considered this for a long time, when in fact it only took three blinks of her eyes to 
decide. 



.1 see. 


Before I asked what she had decided, she mechanically nodded her head and looked at the 
president, and said without changing the tone of her voice, 

"I can come occasionally." 


Of course, Haruhi was bound to complain. 

"We were the ones who won, why do we have to lend our most important member to them? 
Nagato's loan is expensive, I tell you! Yes, 1000 yen per minute!" 

If it's only 1000 yen per minute, then I'm willing to pay. 

"Commander Suzumiya." 

Finished drinking his warm tea, Koizumi now approached Haruhi with a relaxed smile, 

"Your Excellency, sometimes it's important to show mercy to the vanquished. Besides 
occasionally showing off their might, having a generous spirit is also a pre-requisite to becoming 
a great leader." 

"Hmm? Really?" 

Haruhi's mouth now resembled a duck's beak 

"All right then. If Yuki feels okay about it However! I'm not returning the notebook 

computers to you. Oh, and " 

Stopping halfway, Haruhi suddenly thought of something. Haruhi stared at the president and 
gave a gleeful smile. She sure has a lot of expressions. 

"The vanquished have to listen to whatever the victor says. That's the cruelty of war." 

She snatched the tea from the tray which Asahina had quietly brought over (I think it was called 
"Karigane") and swallowed it in one gulp. She then said, 

"From now on, you're to swear absolute allegiance to me. I will treat you well, since I only merit 
people in terms of their ability. As long as you work hard, I'll promote you into proper members 

of the brigade as well. Let's say ah yes, let's say if we have to face off with the Student 

Council, you'll have to stand by to receive my commands. Until then, you're just preparatory 
members." 



At this rate, does she plan to assimilate the whole school into the SOS Brigade? But Haruhi was 
too joyful to pay any attention to my worries, 

"Koizumi-kun, go prepare a treaty." 

"Understood, Your Excellency." 

Koizumi gave the cunning smile of a powerful regent pretending to obey the commands of the 
young emperor he had installed, and sat in front of his newly acquired notebook computer and 
began typing away. 


A few days later, the scenery in the club room remained unchanged, save for the increase of a 
few unused notebook computers. 

Dressed in her maid costume, Asahina wiped the room clean with a mop then went to the kettle 
to boil some hot water; Koizumi was playing board games on his own; and Nagato sat in her 
corner quietly reading her book. Before Haruhi talked, we all enjoyed this brief moment of 
peace. 

In this normal scene in the SOS Brigade club room after school, sometimes, very rarely, the 
bookworm alien would be missing from the room. Whenever I noticed she'd gone missing, she 
would quietly return a few minutes later to read her book. Personally speaking, I feel Nagato is 
the true master of this room. 


Reading a foreign detective novel in its original language, Nagato didn't seem to have changed a 
lot on the outside. It was hard to say about the inside not even I would know that. 

As usual, Nagato would spend most of the time here in this room. Occasionally like an 
unpredictable breeze, she would float over to the room next door, and that was enough. 

"Kyon-kun, here's your tea. This time I'm trying Chinese tea. Hee hee how is it?" 

I received my teacup from the gently smiling Asahina. After tasting the tea, I realized my 
tastebuds were being given a sensation that was similar to that of the other tea leaves that she had 
brewed. As long as it's served by you, even wheatgrass juice will taste like wine to me. 


While thinking of what words to use in my reply as Asahina awaited my response, I pondered; I 
don't suppose I'll get dragged into any strange events any more. 



It was just before Christmas and the winter vacation that I found out how wrong I was. 
When Suzumiya Haruhi disappeared, I realized I was terribly mistaken. 

(The Day of Sagittarius End) 


Prologue - Winter 

Prologue - Winter 


My thoughts on Suzumiya Haruhi, needless to say, are like describing patterns of a patchwork 
carpet. However, should I attempt to describe this individual using words and phrases that I can 
understand, it would be the following warning: 

Here is the person that can't be allowed anywhere near the ICBM launch controls in the whole of 
Japan. 

Normally, a high school girl has close to zero chance of owning such an item, but anytime when 
you pull this woman into the fray, even the next-to-impossible becomes impossible-to-avoid. 
Either that or the two would cancel out, leaving behind nonstop chaos that she is somehow 
immune to. To her the matter would just be an issue of two choices, choose one. That person 
might not be as evil as the timed-explosive that starts its countdown without being set, but she is 
more radioactive than a nuclear reactor meltdown. Experience dictates, however, that even if 
containment of the gremlin is impossible, as long as you set her on 'vibration mode,' no matter 
how big a leak she springs up, the leak can be mended. 

Therefore I have to think of some ways to alleviate her boredom, so she would have no time to 
think of nukes, if only for a little while. As long as she has some other things to burn her 
passions at, just like tossing a bottle cap towards my Calico Shamisen who would bite it for a 
good three minutes, she would have a three minute attention span towards that 'thing'- 

-the above are the mandates Koizumi proposed in the past. Even up till now that guy has yet to 
change his point of view. 

Because of that, we are slapped face-on with the most idiotic thing that can happen. 

Face-on? Gasp, yes. It is not a chance encounter, not a finding and not a meeting. There is no 
word that describes our current situation better. 


Because we are now, truly, totally in deep trouble. 


Snow Mountain Syndrome 

Snow Mountain Syndrome 


"Crap." 

Haruhi, ahead of me, spells out what she really thinks. 

"You can't see anything in front of you!" 

Would you like to know where we are? We were at some lone island in the summer, then what of 
winter? Put yourself in Haruhi's shoes and take a guess. 

"It is peculiar." 

Koizumi's voice drifts from the rear. 

"We should be at the base of the mountain after hiking such a long distance." 

My hint for everyone is that we're in a cold and snowy place. 

"So, cold, oh... Uuuu~" 

The piercing winter gusts cut Asahina-san's voice. I turn my head to reassure the one in the ski 
jacket wobbling like a little duckling and nod to cheer her on, then turn back toward the front. 


Perhaps it's just a psychological thing, but I feel that Nagato, who is leading the way, seems to be 
dragging her steps. The snow crystals stick to her boots, they accumulate with each passing step. 
Where would one experience such things? 

I won't keep you guessing any longer. Here's the answer: 

It is a silvery white world as far as the eye can see, where all that exists other than snow is snow 
wherever you go. 


Other than a snow mountain where else could this be? 


And it's a snow mountain hit by a blizzard. 

To be accurate - Thanks to an incoming snowstorm, our return trip to the lodge is a total disaster 
- this description would match our current status 100%. 

Going back on topic, just who made up this script? Only now am I willing to believe that there is 
an end it and that all five of us will face the threat of death, perhaps only to see the light of the 
day as five frozen corpses appearing when spring melts the snow away. 

Koizumi, think of something! 

"I am out of ideas." 

Koizumi says while staring at the compass. 

"The direction seems to be correct. Nagato's navigation is incomparable. However we have been 
walking for hours on end without sight of the foot of the mountain. Normally, this would be a 
most bizarre situation." 

Then what's up right now? Are we trapped in this huge skiing retreat forever? 

"The only conclusion that can be drawn right now is that it is a bizarre occurrence, an 
unpredictable abnormality. Not even Nagato-san understands the cause and only knows for sure 
that we're facing some adversity." 

You don't have to tell me that since I already know. It's strange for Nagato in the lead to be 
unable to find the way home. 

It must be one of Haruhi's out-of-this- world ideas at work. 

"Don't conclude that just yet. My instinct tells me that Suzumiya-san will not burn her bridge." 
Why are you so sure about that? 

"Because Suzumiya-san is looking forward to the mysterious murder mystery in the lodge. For 
that mystery I have made quite a few arrangements and thought it through." 

Ever since summer, a murder mystery has naturally been planned for the winter co-ed. Last time 
it was a horror story that ended with an anticlimax, and this time it was a deductive game with 
everyone knowing the drill. The cast is the same, featuring Arakawa the butler and Mori the 
maid. Tamaru is also going to guest star using the same role, the same relationship and the same 
name. 


That's true... 



Haruhi can't possibly wait to unveil the conspiracy of the culprit and the identity of the killer, so 
she would not do something subconsciously that would deter us from returning to the lodge 
given that a murder mystery awaits her. 

That aside, my sister, Tsuruya-san the extra that fills in all the time, as well as Shamisen are 
waiting for us at the lodge. 

To be honest, the lodge that we borrowed belongs to the Tsuruya family. That upperclassman of 
boundless energy agreed right away to providing the lodging so long as she came along. 

Bringing Shamisen with me was due to Koizumi wanting him as a part of the set. My sister 
became my luggage by her own accord. The two plus one however are not a part of the team that 
are facing certain catastrophe. Shamisen should be curled up in a ball by the fireside and 
Tsuruya-san should be building a snowman with my sister who doesn't know how to ski. That's 
the last of them that I recall. 

To Haruhi, those three are reserve members, which is the reason why Haruhi doesn't object to 
meeting them again. 

Why is that? Why is it that we cannot get back to the SOS Brigade winter retreat with heating? 

Even with the blessings of Nagato Yuki, we still can't find our way back. Just what is going 
wrong? 

"We keep meeting freak storms in both the summer and winter..." 

Could it be that there exists some law of nature which dictates that during any long vacation, we 
will be thrust into some anomaly that is beyond human comprehension? 

I, as if drunk on a cocktail mixed with anxiety and uncertainty, call upon my memory in a haze. 
"Why did things turn out like this?" 

Flashback mode, start. 


Winter co-ed is almost predestined. If we could foresee the future, even if it did happen in real 
life, we would be unfazed. 


Besides, the moment the murderous lone island cruise (complete with a typhoon) ended, 
someone had already proclaimed loudly what was to come. Who else but Haruhi? The ones that 



swallowed her might and her expression would be all of us excluding Haruhi. The tour guide 
would be Koizumi. 

I had originally hoped that Haruhi would become distracted by winter, but alas, the chiefs 
memory doesn't fail at times such as this - 

"Annual Countdown in Snow Storm." 

Haruhi handed piles upon piles of paper stapled together to us. After handing them out, she 
smiled a kidnapper's perverted smile. 

"As planned originally, this winter we're going to a lodge covered in snow, to jump-start part two 
of the mystery tour!" 

The location was the clubroom, and the time would be the twenty-fourth, right after the end of 
year ceremony. We had a ceramic pot atop a small portable gas stove, placed on an end of a table 
that wobbled about as we tossed ingredients of all kinds into the pot, substituting a hot pot for 
lunch. 

Haruhi tossed in meat, fish and vegetables in no particular order as maid-version Asahina-san, 
adorned with a head scarf, separated the food with a pair of chopsticks and handed out the broth 
once in a while. Nagato, Koizumi, and I were directed to consume. Apart from the group of five 
in the SOS Brigade, we had a guest today. 

"Waaa! This is great! What is this? (gnawing)... Haruhi, you wouldn't be the iron chef? 
(chewing)... Yoho! This soup broth is the best! Yumyumyum- (devouring)" 

The guest would be none other than Tsuruya-san. The originator of such lively tones looked to 
be competing against Nagato who was eating silently as she called about and moved her 
chopsticks with haste, scooping the goodies onto her plate. 

"One must have a hot pot in winter! Kyon as a reindeer is also the bomb, haa, this makes my 
day!" 

So the only one that gave me an encore for the performance was Tsuruya-san and Tsuruya-san 
alone. Haruhi and Koizumi were just faking the smiles. Asahina-san had suddenly covered her 
face and shook her shoulders; Nagato from top to bottom displayed signs of trying to find the 
source of humor using logic, while I felt a sense of total embarrassment as sweat poured down 
my face. There goes any shred of ambition to enter the entertainment industry... Never mind, it's 
better this way. 

There must have been some reason for Tsuruya to be our guest, not just to dip into the feast nor 
to be Asahina-san's entourage. As for that special reason... 


About that cottage in the blizzard. 



Haruhi's description upgraded from a snow storm to a blizzard. 


"Rejoice, Kyon! Who knew that Tsuruya-san would lend her villa to us for free! That, and it's top 
notch! I am already boiling in anticipation! Come, come, come! Don't be shy, dig in!" 

Haruhi tossed a couple of pork cutlets onto Tsuruya-san's plate while scooping the angler slices 
onto hers. 

"Normally our family would go there for vacation..." 

Tsuruya-san stuffed her mouth full of pork and gulped it down. 

"But my dad's out on a business trip to Europe this year so he's away. Since his work will be 
done in three days, we've decided to go to Switzerland on a skiing trip. Therefore I will go with 
you guys to the villa! It'll be a blast!" 

Apparently Tsuruya-san handed her own villa over for the co-ed retreat the moment Asahina-san 
made a passing mention of our winter plan. Koizumi pushed it along and agreed to it 
wholeheartedly as he nodded all the while, and Haruhi was as excited as a cat met with a plate 
full of sashimi when the final plan was handed to her. 

"Tsuruya-san, this is for you!" 

Haruhi took out a violet cuff band, scribbled "Honorary Consultant" on it, then handed it over to 
her - and that's the end of that chapter. 

Koizumi had a beaming smile on his face as he looked on at Haruhi, Nagato, and Tsuruya-san 
eating as if in an eating contest. Maybe noticing my look, he opened his mouth: 

"Please don't worry. This time we will not be scaring anyone. It will simply be a prearranged 
game of deduction. Actually we'll have the same crew." 

Taken literally, Arakawa the butler, Mori the maid and the Tamaru brothers would all show up 
for the show. That didn't matter. More importantly, just what did they normally do? Are they the 
administrative staff of the 'Organization' ? 

"They are actors of a small guild that I happen to know... Can you accept that as an explanation?" 
So long as Haruhi was fine with it, I had no qualms. 

"Suzumiya-san's main focus is whether or not the event is interesting and nothing else matters. 
Although that is the most difficult problem to address... I am not sure if she will find the scenario 
satisfactory, and thinking about this gives me a stomach ache." 

Koizumi pressed his stomach, feigning heartburn, but still retained that smile of his. What a 
terrible actor. 



I am more of a normal person than Haruhi, given that I can't place fun in the center and ignore 
everything else. I looked around for something that could calm my nerves, and I stopped first at 
the expressionless facade of Nagato. Good old poker face Nagato. The typical Nagato Yuki that I 
have come to know was gulping at the hot pot ingredients as if nothing had happened. 


Whatever, I thought to myself. 

There should be no critical mishap this time that would burden Nagato tremendously. No, more 
like such an event should not occur. Looking at the order of things, we should have smooth 
sailing this time. Nagato was not overly active in the summer co-ed and I hoped that it would be 
the same in this co-ed. Best leave all the work to Koizumi and his friends. 

I thought of this as I read the booklet by my side. 

According to the schedule on the booklet, the departure date was 30th December, a day before 
New Year's Eve. The snow mountain was not all that far away. It was reachable within a couple 
of hours on a bus ride, pretty much within the same day. 

When we arrive, the orders of the day would be to ski, ski and ski. A party would follow at night 
(no alcohol allowed), with the dining arranged by Arakawa-san the butler from that lone island 
(although a fake butler, he was so impeccable as to be even more convincing than a real butler, 
so I've no complaint) as well as Mori-san (although a fake maid... et cetera). The Tamaru 
brothers would appear a day after as the late guests of honor, and after that the curtain on the 
detective game rises. 

Following that, New Year's Eve would be spent dissecting the act and the conspiracy behind it. 
The group would meet at the crack of dawn, each in turn taking a guess at the "Poisoned 
Chocolate Case," then, Koizumi the mastermind will reveal the truth nonchalantly as set in 
advance. Everyone then can bid farewell to the passing year without regrets, and say hello to the 
new year. Happy New Year! 

- and that would be the entire co-ed plan in a nutshell. 

The moment I lifted my head up, I ran right into Haruhi's gloating face. It wasn't a real shocker 
for her to look at me in this godforsaken hour anymore. 

"We should really celebrate the coming of new year!" 

Haruhi picked up the leek with her chopsticks. 

"And then, give proper thanks to the new year, so that the new year will be a good one as well. I 
really believe that the coming year will be one where the fortunes of SOS Brigade will turn in 
our favor. " 



Missy, it's fine and all that you like to personify the year. However, I do not think that your 
definition of a good year is the same as the one for us as a whole. 


"Really? I keep thinking that this year has been interesting, which is why I wish for the same 
next year. Ahh, Mikuru-chan, the broth's about to totally evaporate, hurry with the water." 

"Okay, coming right up." 

Asahina-san headed to the teapot in running steps. 

"Eishu." 

She carefully poured the water from the seemingly heavy teapot into the pot. 

Watching the alluring visage of Asahina-san led me to look back at the misadventures of this 
year, and my emotions wavered a little. Haruhi said that this year has been interesting. If I was 
asked the same question, my answer would definitely be yes. 

Actually, when I was a kid I had hoped for encounters that I could boast about. Be it meeting an 
alien or anything for that matter, I really wanted for something of the like to happen, so as to add 
a new, exciting page to my childhood. It'd be bizarre not to be raving over fantasies coming true. 
Although, as it is right now, having new chapters of life added without pause is beyond my 
expectations. 

That said, having lived through these events, how I really feel is as follows - 
- yes, very pleased. 

I can only declare this so loudly after the turmoil is over. It has taken yours truly quite some time 
to reach this state of mind. However, if I had a chance to say any more about how I feel inside, I 
would say that I wish for more peaceful days. Personally, I do hope for more of those times spent 
goofing around in the club room; just a little more. 

"You and all that crazy talk." 

Haruhi's cheeks were filled with angler fish liver as she barked out: 

"You've been just messing around! Don't come and tell me that you've not had enough. If you 
want more, then make use of these days before New Year and really party hard until the last 
moment!" 

"No, thank you." 

This twerp has no idea how much suffering I have endured and how I recovered from all those 
wounds. Claiming victory in that baseball game, putting an end to summer vacation, restoring 
the derailed reality to order since the filming of the movie, going back and forth from the past 



and future and even to re-do the recent past. It is true that all of this has been at my own 
discretion so I cannot blame anyone, but I can't justify it given how I shouldn't be this busy right 
now if I have no plans to become a teacher. 

Never mind, I can't vent to Haruhi even as I complain to the world. 

"There's still plenty of time to party hard after we get to the lodge." 

I brushed aside Haruhi's extended chopsticks to pick up the cabbage in the pot. This was a rare 
Haruhi-made dish. I better scoop some grub into my stomach before the hungry group of females 
(except Asahina-san) claimed it all, given that I have no idea if we will have such a delicacy 
again. 

"We'd still make it." 

Haruhi flung beef onto her plate. 

"Just partying isn't enough, we have to set it ablaze. Listen up, there's only one New Year's Eve 
every year. Think about it, New Year's Eve this year is once in a lifetime, just as today is. This 
day won't come again after it is gone. Therefore, you wouldn't be living up to today if you don't 
live it to the fullest. That's why I hope I can live all of my days fully; making them unforgettable 
is best." 

Hearing those naive words, Tsuruya-san opened up as she chewed on some half-done chicken 
meat: 

"Whoa! Haruhi, you remember all three hundred and sixty-five days of the year? Way to go! 
Ahh, Mikuru, I need some tea." 

"Of course, coming right up!" 

Asahina-san took that clay pot, and poured out the boiled tea carefully into the cup that Tsuruya- 
san had lifted way up. Although treated as a mere waitress, Asahina-san seemed to be more than 
happy to do this. Haruhi, the chef that tossed whatever she could grab into the pot was also quite 
into the moment, Koizumi's graceful smile could reflect on even the steaming hot pot as a 
canvas, and the quietly dining Nagato was hammering it down silently. Tsuruya-san, the 
honorary consultant was here only as a reserve member, but it didn't really affect the mood of all 
of us getting along together as per usual in the SOS Brigade. 

I was presently very sure how precious this time really was. As I had chosen the world on this 
end, more tall tales surrounding Haruhi would no doubt define our path. Before the day I hit the 
ground, I expect to have been through one or two more headaches of a crisis. 

Besides, the slider has yet to appear. 


Hurry up and appear already! 



My tongue slipped. Thank goodness that Haruhi and Tsuruya-san were knee-deep in a fight for 
the mushroom, so it seemed that nobody caught what I said to myself. 


However, I noticed that Nagato's eyelash moved just slightly. 

I took a general glance outside the windows, and the shy sky made one feel rather lazy as the 
snow drifted about. Koizumi caught where my sight was at. 

"The destination of our trip will make you sick of snow when we're done. By the way, do you 
like to ski or sled? Part of my job is to take care of the gear." 

"I've never sledded." 

Tossing out this ambiguous answer, my view left the winter sky. Koizumi kept up his harmless 
smile, but opened his mouth to pry at me: 

"Which yuki (snow) would you be looking at? The one drifting down from the sky, or-" 

It was not to my benefit to stare Koizumi down. I shrugged and thrust myself into the mushroom 
fight. 

This hot-pot feast slipped under the teachers' radar and was not sighted by any tattletale. Well 
perhaps they did find out, but instead turned a blind eye at us. Whatever it was, when we were 
fully stuffed, we cleaned out the bowls and the garbage and promptly left the classroom. The 
moment we walked out of the gates, the snowfall stopped. 

After bidding farewell to Tsuruya-san, who had to hurry back to her family's Christmas dinner, 
the SOS Brigade proceeded to the bakery. After we picked up the extra-large cake that Haruhi 
had ordered, we set forth to Nagato's apartment. 

It wasn't as if we took pity on Nagato spending Christmas alone, rather it was that Nagato's place 
provided the unique opportunity for us to enjoy the cake together and to go crazy with no one to 
frown at us. I wondered which one of us was luckier: Koizumi with Twister or me with the cake. 
Haruhi, in the lead and skipping about, looked to be rather pleased; there was no doubt about 
Asahina-san (whose hands were held and being waved about) and even the muted Nagato 
moving step by step must have been infected by that cheery mood. 

From the looks of things, I would say that such incidents as having Santa Clauses raining down 
on us instead of snow should not occur. Haruhi had fully experienced the commoners' Christmas 
Eve and seemed to have enjoyed it. Her spirits were on par with that of my little sister. Well, it 
could just be the day that stood out. 

For no particular reason, I am more forgiving during this period. Even though Haruhi was on a 
Santa hunt and spent the time stalking the streets in the winter air, I just might oblige her to the 
end with a wry smile. 



As we played the numerous games that Koizumi had brought along, each and every one of us 
seemed to have a good time. Nagato's attention was on «The Day of Sagittarius 3» 
elimination game on two networked notebooks, while Haruhi and I pushed and shoved on 
Twister. This really was a wild night where passing couples would jump into the fun. 


With that, we had a fun-filled Christmas Eve. 


The days between Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve went by in an instant as if Haruhi were 
pushing along Chronos, the god of time. We did a total clean up of the clubroom, and even got a 
phone call from a seemingly brain-dead high school former classmate. After being begged, I 
went along to a football game with him. The end of the year approached during this time. 

The New Year. Would the new year be good or bad, I did not know. Personally, if I didn't 
improve my marks, I would fall flat on my face. 

My mom's desire to shove me into a cram school was already beyond mere rhetoric. Had I joined 
some full-fledged sport club and really got into it, or even just some established clubs that were 
not so well featured, I might have some excuses against it. It just so happened that I am in a 
lacking and obscure group that is involved in nothing but messing around - at least that is how 
things appeared to outsiders. If there was ever a bunch of students that did poorly in school but 
still wanted to advance, I'd be wondering what they learned in high school. 

Maybe there is no such thing as fairness, as Haruhi's marks were splendidly off-the-scale high. 
Koizumi's marks from the previous final would be good enough to be on top of the pack, 
Asahina-san also attended to her lessons very keenly perhaps due to her interest in archeology, 
and Nagato is a no-brainer. 

"Never mind, let's save it for later." 

The pressing matter was to deal with the winter co-ed event. It was fine just to look into that for 
now. Schoolwork could wait till the coming new year. The countdown to the new year co-ed had 
to happen in this year. 

With that - 

"Let's go!" 

Haruhi called forth! 


Yahoo-! 



Tsuruya-san cried back. 

"The weather apparently is clear, making today perfect for skiing. Although this is according to 
the weather at this point in time." 

Koizumi relayed the forecast. 

"Skiing? Where you scoot about on the snow?" 

Asahina-san remarked as she lifted her chin, which was sealed tight by her scarf. 


Nagato stood still as she held her small luggage in one hand. 


"Hi!" 


My little sister jumped out. 

We were standing over the station bright and early. We would take the train, and hop between 
connecting rides. Estimated time of arriving at the snow mountain would be by afternoon. That 
was not an issue; it was rather how my little sister came out uninvited that posed as the real 
issue... 


"No matter, what can you do if she's already here? Let's take her along, probably easier to solve 
this if we go together. You won't cause us any trouble right?" 

Haruhi leaned forward, and flashed a smile at my sister. 

"If it were somebody that I don't give a damn over, I would've kicked him out already, but your 
sister is different from you, having such an honest personality, no reason to say it’s not OK. That 
and she took part in the movie and Shamisen needs a playmate." 

True, even Shamisen, my cat was included in the luggage. Want to know why that was? Listen to 
what the event planner of the SOS Brigade winter co-ed had to say: 

"The cat needs to be there for the plot of the suspense drama." 

Is it a suspense mystery similar to The Cat Knows ? U U U U U □ □ 

Koizumi, sitting atop his own luggage continued: 

"It doesn't matter which cat, one way or the other, so long as the cat can crack the case. His 
superb acting performance in the movie however makes me want to have him come back and act 


once more. 



The present Shamisen is but a typical house cat that can utter no word. It is best not to have high 
hopes for his acting skills. I went on and said the following to Haruhi, who was nose-to-nose 
with my sister: 

"Thanks to her, I was caught in the act as I was leaving the house." 

It was simply too early to be leaving at the crack of dawn. I had already sealed my mouth when it 
came to my mom to preserve my own hide. My sister had no sense that I was to head off with 
Haruhi and gang on a trip. However, a leak sprang. Just as I was in my room, shoving the dozing 
Shamisen into the traveling bag for a kitten, my sister had to stumble her way in. It could've been 
that she needed to head to the washroom and went the wrong way, being half-asleep, I suppose. 

Things got out of hand right after that. My sister's hazy eyes suddenly expanded wide open - 

"Where are you taking Shamisen? Why are you dressed like that? What's with the luggage?" 

Jeez, shut up. With that I witnessed a tantrum worse than in summer, from the fifth-grade eleven 
year old that is my sister, making full use of her hands and legs as she clung onto my bag and 
wouldn't let go. It was the splitting image of those colorful clams that have solid steel grips on 
the rock they are on and won't let go no matter what. 

"It is still quite manageable with one more on board." Koizumi smiled. "We won't go over 
budget paying for a child fare. Besides, both Suzumiya-san and I feel that given that she has 
already come this far, it would be too cruel to send her home." 

After goofing about with Haruhi, my sister sneaked her little face into Asahina-san's full bosoms, 
and hugged the knees of the still Nagato. Finally, she was swung in circles by the laughing 
Tsuruya-san and wouldn't stop squealing. 

Thank goodness that she's a sister. Had she been a brother, he would've been covered up in a bag 
in some dark alley by now. 

On the express headed for Snow Mountain, my sister's urge to play did not subside and she 
tunneled about in between all of us, burning away at her energy. Getting so worked up now 
would have you totally exhausted by the time we hit our destination. By that time I would have 
to carry my snoozing sister, but my warning on that fell on deaf ears. Haruhi and Tsuruya-san, in 
the same class as my sister, were still psyched up; even the more refined Asahina-san seemed to 
be excited. Even Nagato, who shoved her book into her luggage after only a few pages, observed 
my sister with quiet stares. 

I hugged my chin over by the windowpane, pensively staring at the fleeting view. Koizumi sat in 
the seat next to me. Haruhi and the other girls were right in front of us. They turned the seats to 
face each other, so the five of them could play UNO together. Don't get too loud, you'll startle 
the other passengers. 



The discriminated-against Koizumi and I played Joker for about ten minutes after the train set 
off. It got progressively more and more boring, so I gave up. Why must us two men be cast as 
tragic fodder? 

If that was so, all that was left was to let the mind's eye drift to a glorious feast. Imagining the yet 
to appear skiing attire on Asahina-san was far more constructive. Just as I was deep in thought 
over how I should forge a scene of just me and her on the ski slopes in lovey-dovey mode... 

"Meow-" 

A sound came from my carrying bag, and cat whiskers appeared from the opening. 

After the movie phenomenon, Shamisen turned into a well-behaved house cat of low 
maintenance, leaving no trace of being a stray to anyone. He would behave and wait for feeding 
time to come, and would not scratch or chew on things. Maybe it is because the number one 
priority to the fellow is none other than sleep. He was snoozing the moment he was in the cat 
cage in the morning. Having said that, no matter how lazy the cat is, it'll get sick of sleep and 
wake up eventually. He brushed the edges of the lid as if he was bored. However, there was no 
way for me to let him roam about in the car. 

"Hold on for a little longer." 

I persuaded him, as he lay beside my legs. 

"After we get there, I'll get you new cat food." 

"Meow-" 

Shamisen fell into silence, seemingly understanding my intention. Koizumi, amazed, remarked: 

"At first, when he first started talking, I was totally blown away. Having caught this cat was to 
have struck gold. I don't just mean having found a male calico, but to have him so understanding 
of emotions makes him just incredible." 

It was Haruhi that grabbed him from a pack of stray cats, which happened to have a mutation in 
the chromosome that only occurs once in a couple thousand cats. I really should tell Haruhi to 
buy lottery. No matter what we got, we could somehow offset the costs of our activities. I feel 
rather bad having to use the Literary Club's budget all the time. 

"Lottery... If Suzumiya-san really won the lottery, the aftermath might be difficult to cope with. 
Just think, what would happen if she had millions of dollars in her hands?" 

I don't think of such things often, but I believe the twit would start buying up second-hand 
fighter jets from the Americans. A single seater is ok, the real headache would be the twin-seater. 
You don't need to think to know who's going to be stuffed into the rear as a co-pilot. 



Either that, or she'd lavishly toss it all on advertisements. One of these days as you sit back and 
watch prime-time entertainment, you might suddenly run into "This show is solely sponsored by 
the SOS Brigade" on the screen. Just the thought of our advertisement being broadcast to every 
family in the nation sends chills down my spine. If Haruhi became producer, any show would 
become totally whacked. A kindergartener would fare better in stocks than her at the helms. 

"Perhaps she would do things that would benefit the masses, such as setting up some grants for 
inventions, or to create a laboratory." 

Koizumi fiercely launched the wind direction balloons into the air. You lose 90% of the time in 
life however and the stakes here were just too high. Even a skilled statistician would hesitate at 
this. We shouldn't ask for more trouble without some very convincing reason to do so. 

"It would be enough to have her buying popsicle sticks in supermarkets that might fetch a prize." 

I looked at the scenery outside once more. Koizumi leaned back, sank into the chair and shut his 
eyes to rest a little. The moment we got there we would be totally occupied, so storing up energy 
was the right thing to do right now. 

The scenery outside became more and more rural. As we pass each tunnel, the view became 
more silvery white. I headed into sweet dreams as I enjoyed the view. 

With that, we concluded our train ride as we hugged our luggage and rolled out of the train 
station. What greeted us was the dichromatic view of the clear blue sky accompanying the 
glaring white snow and the familiar greetings from a group of two. 

"Welcome, everyone. It has been some time since we last met." 

With a deep bow, here was the best actor as the butler - 

"You must all be tired from the long trip. Welcome." 

- alongside the beautiful maid of age unknown. 

"Not at all, not at all, sorry for making you so busy." 

Koizumi, ever so able to make such talk, headed their way and stood alongside the two of them. 

"This would be the first time that Tsuruya-san has met them. They are my friends, Arakawa-san 
and Mori-san. I have asked for their assistance regarding the dining accommodations for this 
tour." 

Their attire remained exactly as they was in Lone Island... here was the three-piece wearing, gray 
haired gentleman butler Arakawa, and wearing a plain apron atop a dress, the maid Mori san. 


I am Arakawa. 



I am Mori. 


The two greeted us at the same time. 

In this chilling temperature, they greeted us without donning even a coat. Would this be part of 
the act, or was it a sense of professionalism stemming from their roles that prompted them into 
this? 

Tsuruya-san dangled the heavy luggage around. 

"Hi! Nice to meet you! Since Koizumi-kun recommended you all, I have no doubt whatsoever. 
Please take care of us. Use the mansion however you like!" 

"Thank you very much." 

The sincere Arakawa-san bowed once again, and lifted his head after some effort, as he revealed 
a stiff smile on his face. 

"It is of much relief to see all of you in high spirit." 

"I apologize for the poor reception in the summer, please do forgive us." 

Mori-san revealed a warm smile, and the moment she saw my sister, that smile softened even 
more. 

"Wow, such a cute little girl." 

The uninvited guest quickly sprang back to life as seaweed does when it hits boiled water. "Hi!" 
she said and quickly dashed to Mori-san's skirt. 

Haruhi walked forward and stepped onto the snowfield. 

"It's been too long. I am really looking forward to the winter co-ed. That typhoon which blew 
over in the summer was quite the bummer, so I plan to make up for all of that in one scoop this 
time around!" 

With that, she turned around and went on as if she was a rook about to charge: 

"Let's get going! We can really go crazy after this! Let's get rid of all the dirt from this year out 
of us, and welcome the new year anew! Not even one speck of remorse can be taken to the new 
year. All right!" 

We each answered in our own way. Tsuruya-san lifted a hand up high, shouting "YA-!" Asahina- 
san seemed rather shy and timidly nodded, Koizumi had only smile after smile, Nagato as per 
usual was totally silent while my little sister wouldn't let go of Mori-san. 



As for myself, I looked aside at the horizon to avoid that beaming-to-the-point-of-glaring smiling 
facade of Haruhi. 

The sky was absolutely clear and showed no sign of an impending storm. 

At this point in time. 

We went in 4x4s to get to Tsuruya-san's mansion. The drivers were Arakawa-san and Mori-san, 
so one could conclude that Mori-san must've at least been the legal age to obtain a vehicle 
license. This would be quite a breakthrough since I had little doubt that she would be of our age 
group from before. No, no, I don't mean anything else. Having Asahina-san as the sole busy 
maid is enough. I have no desire toward Mori-san, just to clarify. This is important. 

The car ride through the view blanketed by snow was rather short. It only lasted about fifteen 
minutes, and the four-wheeled monsters came to a halt in front of a very classy building. 

"Quite the atmosphere!" 

Haruhi, the first to step off the car, remarked fondly. 

"This would be the most petite and beautiful of the villas that we have." Tsuruya-san said. "But I 
really like it here, since it is the most comfortable." 

This place was not far from the station, and there was a skiing ground accessible on foot. Based 
on the location it was clear that the villa could fetch quite the pretty penny. The comment that 
this was the smallest mansion was no lie, for her to say this was the smallest and the most 
beautiful should be due to having to compare this to her own Japanese style estate. If I am to use 
the impression of a commoner to describe this, I have to say that the stretch of this property is on 
par to that of the lone island resort we were at this summer. Just what kind of shady things did 
the Tsuruya family do to have obtained such grand houses? 

"Please come in." 

Arakawa the butler was in the lead. He and Mori-san obtained the permission of Tsuruya-san and 
had the key beforehand, and headed here a day in advance, which meant that they had been 
setting the stage since yesterday. This was thanks to the minute detailed planning of Koizumi as 
well as revealing how easy-going the Tsuruya family was, with just this detail. 

This villa of all-wood construction would be overbooked if it were open to the public come 
skiing season. Just as I stepped into the apartment being utterly thankful, a small premonition 
slipped past me. 

What that might be I couldn't put to words. However, I definitely had a slight premonition slip 
past me. 


Hmm...? 



I turned around and gazed in awe at the internal furnishings of the villa. 


Tsuruya-san could not stop smiling with Haruhi showering her with her seductive praise, and 
Tsuruya-san replied with booming laughter. Koizumi and Arakawa-san along with Mori-san 
were in conversation. My sister took out Shamisen right away and hugged him as Asahina-san 
took a deep breath upon putting her luggage onto the ground. Nagato locked her vision towards 
the sky at some unknown, unclear target. 

No anomaly. 

Afterwards, we would spend the next few days to enjoy the R&R vacation that is co-ed in name 
and to return to our posts to enjoy everyday life... 

In theory. 

We all knew that the murder mystery act that would take place is just an act, not an actual case, 
so Haruhi's mood would not waver. There should be no need for Nagato and Asahina-san to 
intervene. Koizumi's powers also have no use. 

To put it another way, what was to come would be almost like insider trading and not some 
bizarre murder case in a thick mist nor some gigantic cricket that would spring forth the moment 
you pry a room open, so nothing extraordinary. 

Although, just what was this feeling? It could only be described as incoherent, which by now is a 
common term... Not unlike having a phantom passing by. Yeah, just like that never-ending 
summer break which eluded us. It felt rather similar, except without the deja vu... 

"I give up." 

As if I caught the slippery body of a fish, that feeling vanished from my hands. 

"Am I just thinking too much?" 

I shook my head and headed up the stairs inside the mansion, inching toward my allotted room. 
The internal furnishing could not be said to be lavish, or perhaps it was just me not having an eye 
for quality material. Maybe the moment that I started asking how much this seemingly simple 
stair banister costs an astronomical quote would come my way. 

We were on the bedroom filled second floor. 

"Kyon-kun." 

Tsuruya-san approached me with a smile. 

"May I sleep with your sister? To be honest, we don't have enough rooms. I could open up the 
room that I used when I was a kid to her, but if she sleeps alone wouldn't she be lonely?" 



"It's fine for her to share a room with me. 


Haruhi suddenly peeked her head over. 

"I looked at the room; the bed is huge. Having three sleeping in files is not a problem. No matter 
how you put it, girls sleeping with girls is more healthy." 

What healthy? Having my sister in my room... As if I would do anything to her. I might go down 
the slippery slope if I am to share a room with Asahina-san. Whether it'd be my sister or 
Shamisen is really of no difference to me. 

"Oy, what then?" 

Haruhi asked my little ol' sis who placed Shamisen on her shoulder. She giggled and answered 
without a giving a damn about the general mood: 

"I want to sleep with Mikuru-oneechan!" 

My sister sneaked her way into Asahina-san's room just like that and left Shamisen with me. I set 
out to offer the others a rare chance to spend the night with this bright feline - 

"Thank you for your goodwill, but I have not the patience to take care of a talking cat." 

Koizumi hit me with a soft nail while Nagato stared at the eyelashes of the calico for about thirty 
seconds - 

"No need." 

With that short answer, she promptly turned around and left. 

Fine, letting him roam the premises didn't seem to hurt. Although in foreign territory, Shamisen 
acted no differently than at home, as he jumped right into bed and started snoring. He'd been 
sleeping for so long in the train already. I would've loved to lie down myself, but Haruhi spared 
no time for rest, so one had to follow the orders of the day and gather around downstairs. 

"Good! Let's go! Off to ski!" 

I think this was getting ahead of ourselves, but Haruhi would not waste even a second while 
being on the burning edge. With the energetic Tsuruya-san stoking the fire, Haruhi might just 
double her speed with the even more hyper Tsuruya-san by her side. 

Ski outfits and the skis were rented elsewhere by Koizumi. It was unbelievable how he had 
obtained our exact measurements. There was even one for my little sister who came at the last 
moment and it was a snug fit for her. I could almost picture spies of the 'Organization' (in black 
suits and dark shades) sneaking into North high and the elementary that my sister attends and 



raiding the clinic room for the check-up records. Hmm, I should ask about Asahina-san's 
measurements from him one of these days. This is for no other reason but pure curiosity. 

"I have not skied for some time. Ever since the get-together in my elementary days I have had no 
chance at it. It's all because it doesn't snow where we live. There's gotta be snow in winter to 
really get the mood going!" 

The utterance of a brat that knows not of the perils of snowy fields. There are plenty of people 
who detest snow. From what I can conclude, Uesugi Kenshin of the warring states was one such 
individual. 

Laden with boots and with skis on our backs, we finally marched our way into the grand ski 
slopes. Like Haruhi, I hadn't had a chance to ski for some time. The last time would've been in 
my junior days. This would be a first for my sister and, apparently, the same for Asahina-san as 
well. I am positive that Nagato had never experienced this, but my educated guess is that she 
would rival any professional the moment she hit the slopes. 

The scattered flags of various color that were the ski jackets entered my view as we ascended the 
lift, which made me realize just how few people there were compared to my own imagination, 
and Tsuruya-san started to explain: 

"This is a hideaway that is known only to a few; a secret skiing ground known only to experts. 
That is because this had been a private skiing area until only a decade ago." 

Although it had since then been open to the general public, Tsuruya-san's supplemental showed 
no air of prejudice. There exist people like that in this world, having good looks, great 
personality, great financial situation, good background, and are essentially helplessly flawless. 

Haruhi remarked as she put her skis onto her boots: 

"What to do, Kyon? I would like to go to the expert trail straight away, but does everyone know 
how to ski? How about you?" 

"Let us get some practice." 

I looked at my little sister and Asahina-san, who after having the skis put onto their boots, were 
tripping after going a distance no greater than thirty centimeters on them, and promptly answered 
Haruhi. 

"If you don't teach them even the basics, never mind the expert trail, just getting onto the chair 
lifts will take forever." 

Asahina-san, who had snow all over her from falling into the ground, was a natural as a skiing 
gear model. I thought occasionally about whether or not anything existed in this world that 
would not go well with her? 



"Let's do this! I will train Mikuru, Imouto-chan will go with Haruhi-nyan. As for Kyon-kun and 
the rest, think of something on your own." 


Tsuruya-san's proposal could not have come at a better time. I needed some time to get used to 
the feel of being on skis. As I gave a passing glance off to the side... 


The absolutely emotionless Nagato, with poles in hands, had already taken off smoothly. 

In the end, my sister didn't learn anything. Was Haruhi's teaching method flawed? 

"Put your feet together, and push hard on the poles, zoom and you are on your way, and just keep 
going ahead on full steam, and also stop on full steam. All right! Now you're all set to go!" 

More like inching bit by bit. If running on full steam was all you needed, then the first hybrid car 
would actually stand a chance of being rolled out. Regrettably, my sister's efforts on full steam 
only extended her endurance from thirty centimeters to three meters before she crashed into the 
ground. However she enjoyed herself as she shouted and fell and ate snow. No matter the 
outcome, this is a healthy form of relaxation. Although one should beware of getting a 
stomachache from this and getting too carried away. 

Now, on the other hand, either Asahina-san has talent or Tsuruya-san is just a great instructor, 
since Asahina-san had mastered skiing in a matter of thirty minutes. 

"Wa, wa! This is fun! Wa! This is great!" 

In the pure white backdrop, the visage of a smiling Asahina-san skiing was, to summarize and to 
cut short my comments, like a superbly crafted rendition of a snow fairy, as dazzling as a piece 
of art. Just seeing this beauty was enough for me should I be sent packing right after this. Before 
that however, it's picture time. 

Haruhi took a snipe at Koizumi and I who were practicing by ourselves, and looked on at my 
sister who made no progress. From her looks, she seemed to convey that she wished to hit the 
hilltop and get a shot at descent, but there was no way to take the fifth grader along. 

Tsuruya-san must have seen through her, which is why she said: 

"Haruhi-nyan! You all go on ahead and take the lift!" 

Tsuruya-san fell but was laughing heartily as she dug my sister out in haste. 

"I will teach Imouto-kuntu ! Either that or I'll build a snowman with her, or ride a sled even. It's 
just a matter of renting a sled." 


Really? 



Haruhi looked on at my sister and Tsuruya-san, as she thanked her. 

"Thank you so much- Sorry-" 

"No biggie no biggie- Come, Imouto-kuntu! Would you like skiing lessons, snowman making, 
or riding on a sled?" 

"Snowman!" 

My little sister loudly replied as Tsuruya unloaded her skiing gear. 

"Okay, snowman it is. Let's make him a big one, all right?" 

Looking at the two as they proceeded with making a snowball, Asahina-san said enviously: 
"Snowman... I want to stay behind and build a snowman..." 

"No way." 

Haruhi quickly arrested Asahina-san's arm, and said with all smiles: 

"We're heading to the top of the hill, and we will go up against each other. The first to reach the 
foothill will be granted the title of General Winter by me. Do your best!" 

That brat would no doubt call it quits only when she emerged as the victor. No matter, but to 
challenge the summit right off the bat did make me somewhat scared. It is better to take things 
one at a time. 

Haruhi held her nose high and scoffed. 

"Wuss. To really have fun in skiing, you should head straight for the top!" 

Although she might have said that, she still opted for my suggestion, which is a rarity. We 
decided to tackle the intermediate level slope first, and save the main event of the day, the expert 
level trail, for the last challenge. 

"Let's get on the lifts. Yuki, we're going! Get over here!" 

Nagato, who was going in wide arcs around us, hurried to our position when Haruhi sounded off, 
and stopped right next to me. 

"We're going against each other! Compete! I've got enough free lift vouchers to last us till 
sundown... No! Even at dusk, we'll still be able to take the lift! OK, come with me!" 

I would have done so without you hollering about. Besides, even if I declared my intent to join 
the snowman building class, you would've vetoed it. Let's not talk about Koizumi, for just having 



Nagato and Asahina-san giving Haruhi free reign to do whatever she desires, I'd say never mind 
blizzards, even the return of the glacial age was not out of the picture. As such, not having an 
open-minded man of ethics just wouldn't do. I wasn't sure if I had the open mind to look at all the 
greats in our midst, and Koizumi would have a field day as he came up with several rebuttals 
against me. So I didn't care anymore. That was, because none of this really mattered now. 

The entire brigade stood energetically. The snow was powder snow, the clear bright sky was a 
shade of cyan. The chief, with an expression as clear as the sky above her, extended her hand. 

"The chairs are twin-seaters, so for fairness, let's RPS over them!" 

Up next... 



r-/ 


£3 

...the shape of the snowman became more pronounced, with Tsuruya-san and my sister really enjoying 
themselves as if they were the same age. 

Absolutely nothing worth mentioning. My sister and Tsuruya-san decided to stay behind to do 
individual activities, as the regular members of the SOS Brigade were slowing going up through 
the lifts, and enjoying simple skiing thrills. The moment we skied down to the foothill, the shape 
of the snowman became more pronounced, with Tsuruya-san and my sister really enjoying 
themselves as if they were the same age. Whether it was putting on the bucket, or installing a 
nose, they were lost in the act. Soon after, they started on a second snowman. This would be the 
most recent scene of them in my memory. 

Or, perhaps the last memory of them for that matter. 


How many turns of the skiing tournament had it been by now? 



After descending from the mountain with no mishap, somehow... We really paid no heed of the 
time. Just out of the blue, almost suddenly, we found ourselves in the thick of a storm. Only a 
vision of white was before us, and anything beyond a meter fell out of our vision. 

The gusting storm mixed with snow fragments pounded on us. The pain was more pronounced 
than the cold. Our exposed faces quickly become frozen. We could only breathe normally by 
facing down; that was how strong a blizzard we found ourselves in. 

There really was no prior warning. 

Haruhi in the lead came to a stop, and Nagato who was against her also came to a screeching 
halt, while Asahina-san and I caught up, with Koizumi bringing up the rear 

we were already surrounded in this blizzard. 

It is almost as if it were summoned by somebody out there. 


End flashback. Now do you see why we are in such a grievous situation over this snow 
mountain? 

The visibility is simply too poor, and should there be a cliff a couple of meters away, we might 
fall and meet our demise if not careful. There really shouldn't be a cliff, but it would not be 
surprising if something unidentified on the map appeared before us. This ski retreat has no 
jumping platform, not that I want to challenge the large hill. To say fall would be exaggerating 
things, but we might knock our nasal bridges out if we come into direct conflict against trees 
camouflaged in white. 

"Where are we right now?" 

I feel rather dismayed having to rely on Nagato at this hour, but nothing is more important than 
our lives. But we are in a situation where Nagato is unable to pilot us after hours of trekking 
about and we are still stuck at square one. 

"This is odd." 

Even Haruhi's grumbles bear the scent of confusion. 


"Just what is going on? How can it be that we don't even see a shadow of a person? This is way 
too bizarre. How long have we been walking?" 



She looks toward Nagato in the lead, as Nagato shows an expression that looks to be wondering 
whether or not she has taken the wrong path down the mountain somehow. This matter will have 
to be left at that for now. This is not some wonderland. So long as we grasp our rough bearings, 
we should naturally reach the base of the mountain as we head downward along the slope. The 
problem is that we can't get to that point for some reason, talk about weird. 

"We have no choice, let's dig a hole in the snow and set up camp. Keep going when the storm 
dies down." 

"Wait." 

I call Haruhi off, as I head to Nagato who seems to be brushing the snow aside. 

"Just what is going on?" 

The young girl with a poker face, with her short hair stiffened from the freezing air lifts her head 
towards me slowly. 

"An incomprehensible event has occurred." 

She quietly says. Those dark irises look at me in earnest. 

"If the dimensional coordinates that I recognize are correct, our current whereabouts should have 
exceeded the point of origin." 

What and what? If that is so we should have landed in the midst of human life signs. But even 
after all that walking, we fail to run into the lift cables or even any cabin. 

"An event that is beyond the control of my dimensional manipulation abilities has occurred." 

Hearing the chilling voice of Nagato, I take a deep breath. Words vanish from the edge of my 
mouth just as how snowflake evaporates in an instant upon contacting the tip of the tongue. 

Event beyond Nagato's abilities to control? 

Are the strange premonitions directed at this? 

"Who could've done it this time around?" 

Nagato falls into silence, without blinking her eyes as the snowflakes dance wildly and blow 
straight at her. 

None of us has a watch with us, nor do we have a cellular phone when we rushed to the ski 
grounds, so nobody really knows the time. We only know that we left the villa at approximately 
three o'clock in the afternoon. But we are sure that we have been out for some time. The cloudy 
sky still has some glimmer of light, but the thick cloud and the blizzard covers prevent us from 



seeing where the sun is. It is about as bright as a moss-filled cave. A strange taste of rust gushes 
out from the depths of my wisdom tooth and a slight pain starts up. 

We can't seem to get out of this wall of snow, and a uniform grey covers the sky. 

It is not as if I haven't experienced this somewhere before. 

Could it be that - 

"Ahh!" 

Haruhi who is standing next to me suddenly exclaims. I am shocked to the point that my heart 
was about to jump out of me, going right through my ribs. 

"Oy! Don't go around scaring people like that! What are you doing shouting out of the blue like 
that for?!" 

"Kyon, look at that!" 

Haruhi points her fingertip, and utterly fearless over the strong winds- 
A dim glow is ahead. 

"What is that?" 

I gaze into that light. Due to the tempest, the glow fades in and out, but the source remains 
consistent. It is similar to the dim glows of the fireflies after they mate. 

"That light's coming from a window!" 

Haruhi's tone is filled with a sense of exhilaration. 

"There must be a house over there! Let's go and take a look. We will freeze to death if we stay 
any longer." 

Staying still, we will perish as she just said. Although... a house? Can there be a house in such a 
desolate place? 

"Over here over here! Mikuru-chan, Koizumi-kun! Everyone keep following me!" 

Haruhi becomes a human plowing machine, and valiantly opens a path for us up front. Frigidity, 
anxiety and exhaustion make Asahina-san's body tremble. Koizumi follows Haruhi while 
holding her. The lines that he spewed forth as he went past me chills my heart to the bottom of 
the pit. 



"This is definitely an artificial light. However I am very certain that there was no light coming 
from this direction before, since I have been monitoring the situation nearby." 


Nagato and I utter no word, as we stare at the back of Haruhi who is using her skis to shovel the 
snow away. 

"Hurry up! Kyon, Yuki! Don't get left behind!" 

There remains no other alternative. Rather than having our frozen corpse becoming the news 
headline a century later, I would gamble on this seemingly slim chance of survival. Even if it's a 
trap set in advance, we have no choice at this point. 

I push on Nagato's back, as I head along the path in the snow that Haruhi has opened up. 

The closer we get, the brighter the light becomes. Haruhi's better than 20/20 vision is no joke. 
This is definitely an indoor light permeating from the window. 

"It's a mansion! And a large one..." 

Haruhi stopped in her footsteps, shot her head straight up, and after having expressed her 
thoughts, kept going. 

I stare at the massive structure, and my darkened mood sinks some more. In a backdrop 
composed of the silvery white snow and the pencil grey sky, it stands like a house in a shadow 
play, making it all the more uninviting. It isn't so much that its appearance is not commonly seen. 
To call it a villa, well it stands as grand as a castle. Several towers of unknown purpose protrude 
from the roof, and though it could be due to inadequate lighting, they look very dark. To have 
such a structure within the snow mountain is the very definition of bizarre. If not, then all the 
dictionaries of the world should have to be rewritten with the new definition of the word. 

The location is a snow mountain clouded by a blizzard. The cast is us who are in distress. 

Finding a dim light while we are lost on the way, and stumbling upon a strange mansion after 
following that light - 

Only one ingredient is left. Would what comes next be the appearance of the owner of the house, 
being even more peculiar than the mansion, or even some alien monster? Would the story head 
into suspense, mystery or horror? 

"Hello 

Haruhi quickly faces the portal, and projects her voice. The door has no intercom nor does it 
have a doorbell. Haruhi's fist knocks on the inelegant door. 


Is anyone there!? 



I give the mansion another look, while standing behind Haruhi. 

It is not that I'm cynical, but this setting is just too well prepared, as if it was custom-made for us. 
However, I am aware that this couldn't be the work of Koizumi. It'll be great if the moment that 
door opens, Arakawa-san as well as Mori-san are there to greet us ... but even Nagato has said 
that the current situation is beyond her, proving that this can't possibly be the doing of Koizumi, 
as I don't think Koizumi can fool Nagato. Even if he had Nagato in it, and got her to be part of 
the surprise, Nagato would not have lied to me. 

Haruhi yells out with a booming voice comparable to this tempest: 

"We're lost! Would you please let us rest inside? We are trapped in the snow and are about to 
die!" 

I turned my back to verify that everyone's still on board. Nagato looks at Haruhi's back with her 
typical marionette expression. Asahina-san is hugging her own body for warmth with a panicked 
face, occasionally letting loose a cute sneeze and wiping her entirely red nose. Koizumi's 
signature smile has vanished. His arms are crossed like he is deep in thought, with his head 
cocked on an angle. His expression is as if he has tasted something bitter. He looks as the 
indecisive Hamlet might, pondering whether or not one should open the door. 

Haruhi's noise level is so high that should she be doing this close to my home, the neighbors 
would be up in arms. The question is that there is no answer so far. 

"Is nobody home?" 

Haruhi, with her gloves removed and blowing steam at her fists says resentfully: 

"There are lights inside, so I thought there'd be people inside... Kyon, what's next?" 

I can't give you an answer just like that even if you ask for one. Only some hot-blooded hero that 
would do whatever comes into his head would rush headlong into this place shrouded by 
mystery. 

"It'll do if we can find a place to use as shelter... is there a garage or a shack nearby?" 

However, Haruhi opts not for such distractions as trying to find shelter. She puts on her gloves 
before us, grabs onto the handle that has accumulated ice on it, and lets go of a breath that looks 
like a prayer. With a serious expression, she slowly turns the handle. 

Maybe I should stop her. At least, after hearing Nagato's advice, I should have some idea about 
what's ahead. But it's too late now - 

- it is as if the mansion is opening its mouth. 


The door is open. 



Artificial lighting lit up our faces. 

"So it's unlocked. Would it kill them to get the door if somebody's in the house?" 

Haruhi storms in at the lead as she puts the skis and the poles off to the side on the wall. 
"Anyone? Is there anyone here? Sorry for the intrusion!" 

What can you do? We can only mimic what the chief does. Koizumi, the last in, shuts the door, 
and we are finally able to bid a temporary farewell to the hours of cold and the piercing sounds 
of the gale, so we can rest easy. 

"Hoo-!" 


Asahina-san lands right on the ground. 

"Hello! Is anyone there-?!" 

The boisterous shouts of Haruhi ring next to my ear, as the warmth and the brightness of the 
house sink into my bones. It is like the feeling one gets from taking a hot shower after coming 
back into the house deep in winter. The snow accumulated on our jackets as well as our heads 
quickly turns into droplets that drip onto the ground. The heating must be on pretty high here. 

Strangely, there is nobody in the house. It should be about time that someone comes out to 
express how they are disrupted by Haruhi and sends her out of here, but there remains no reply to 
Haruhi's calls. 

"Would this be a haunted house?" 

I mutter as I look around the house. The hall comes up the moment one steps through the double 
door. Is it easier to say that it's like the lobby of a high-class hotel? The ceilings are quite high, 
with a large chandelier that hangs above for illumination. The floor is covered with a deep red 
carpet. The exterior might look like some haunted castle, but the inside is fairly modern. An 
impressive elevator that leads to the second floor is right in the centre of the hah. If there were a 
coatroom nearby, I might mistakenly call it the ground floor of a hotel. 

"I'll go take a look." 

The absent house owner has got onto Haruhi's nerves. She rids herself of the ski jacket as if 
shedding her skin, and kicks her boots away. 

"Can't worry so much since this is an emergency, but I wouldn't want to get grilled for 
trespassing on private property. I will go and see if anyone's here. All of you wait here." 

As expected of the chief, having made a statement befitting a leader. Just as Haruhi is about to 
take off, with only her socks on - 



Hold it. 


I called to her. 

"I'll go with you. God forbid if you go alone and do something totally out of line." 

I take off my boots and jacket in haste. My body instantly becomes more agile. All the fatigue 
from having been lost in the snow mountain clouded by the storm has seemingly vanished. I 
push the heavy clothing aside. 

"Koizumi, take care of Asahina-san and Nagato in the meantime." 

A contorted smile appears on face of the esper guy who can't help us out of the snow mountain at 
all, and he nods lightly. I look at the worried expression of Asahina-san, and glance at Nagato 
who is standing still. 

"Let's go. This place is huge, the owners might be deep inside which is why they didn't hear you 
roaring. " 

"When is it ever up to you to call the shots? In times like this only I give out the orders! Do as I 
tell you to do!" 

The sharp-tongued Haruhi flaunts her power, grabs my wrist, and says to the three on stand by: 
"We'll be back in no time. Koizumi-kun, take care of the two of them." 

"Understood." 

Koizumi replied to Haruhi with his everyday smile, and nodded his head to me. 

I guess that guy must be thinking the same thing that I am. 

There is not a ghost of a person to be found even after scouring all the corners of this house. 

For some reason, I just feel that way. 

Haruhi decides to explore the upper level first. Just walking up the grand staircase, long corridors 
to our left and right open themselves up, and the walls of the two corridors have countless 
wooden doors. We decided to open one such door, and it opened with ease. A tidy European 
bedroom lay within. 

There appear to be stairs at the end of each corridor, and we walk up, of course following 
wherever Haruhi decides to go. 


There, after that go this way. 



Haruhi points to the headings with one hand, and using the other to pull on my wrist. Every time 
we hit a new level, she shouts out: "Is anyone there?" The volume is so loud that I am tempted to 
cover my ears, but I can't even do that, so all that I do is what Haruhi tells me, and tag along with 
her. 

Because there is an uncountable number of rooms, we can only randomly open some of the doors 
to peek inside. When we verified the same kind of bedroom, we are at the fourth floor. Are the 
night lamps always on in the corridors? Each and every level seems to be brightly lit. 

Which door to open next? As I was taking my pick - 

"This reminds me of that time in summer when we went outside to see if the boat was still there." 

... hmm, such a thing did happen. During that time, I was dragged by Haruhi as I am now and ran 
while it was pouring down. 

As I turned the dark brown films of my memory, Haruhi suddenly stops, and as she holds me by 
the wrist I come to a stop as well. 

"Well I..." 

Haruhi proceeds quietly: 

" . . .can't remember when this started... I started to try to choose the road less traveled whenever 
possible all the time. Ahh, I don't mean typical road when I say road, but instead it's like the one 
with a direction or a heading, such as the road of survival for example. " 

"Oh." I pay lip service. So? What about it? 

"Therefore, I would take a different path from everyone else right from the start, that way I 
would have a different experience from everyone else, given that the typical choice tends to be 
rather boring. Why it is that people would decide on dull things is beyond me. Subsequently, I 
found out something. As long as I start to make different choices from most people right off the 
bat, I would have interesting things awaiting me to discover." 

The born rebel would take the other path just because of things being too mainstream, choosing 
the alternative without considering the risk-benefit. I have that inclination myself, so it is not as 
if I don't understand what Haruhi is suggesting. However, I think you are a bit too extreme, and 
are operating beyond the level of what is reasonable. 

Haruhi gives a Mona Lisa smile back. 

"Nevermind, it's nothing serious." 


What! This clearly doesn't need my reply, so don't bother asking in the first place! Would you 
look at our situation! This isn't the time to joke about and take it easy! 



Although, something has been on my mind. 


"What is it this time?" 

I asked impatiently. 

"What's with you and Yuki?" 


Haruhi doesn't look at me, and stares ahead at the corridor. 

My response is off by a beat. 

"... What are you saying? Nothing's going on between me and her." 

"Liar. I can see that you've been paying attention to Yuki ever since Christmas Eve. Every time I 
look at you, you've been looking at Yuki." 

Haruhi still stares ahead. 

"It's not because you hit your head or something? Or is it that you're plotting something for 
Yuki?" 

I don't feel that I have been staring at Nagato excessively. The ratio compared to looking at 
Asahina-san should be at best 6:4... but now's not the time to say that! 

"As if..." 

Cat got my tongue. Ever since the event of the disappearance, just as claimed by Haruhi, I have 
paid a bit more attention to Nagato. I feel somewhat uncomfortable about this, which is why I am 
denying it. But I didn't anticipate that Haruhi would notice, so I never came up with a script to 
use. That, and it’s not as if I can tell her the truth. 

"Say it!" 

Haruhi pronounces each word distinctly. 

"Yuki has changed somewhat. Although she looks the same as ever, I just know. Something has 
happened between you and Yuki, right?" 

Just in the space of two to three sentences, we went from 'ill intent' to 'set in stone'. If we let her 
keep going at this rate, by the time we get back to Koizumi and the gang, it will have become 'for 
real' between Nagato and me. It is true that something did happen between us, so it's hard to 
outright deny this charge, to think about it all of a sudden. 



Eh... um... well... 


"Don't try to weasel your way out! You lowlife scum!" 

"No! We didn't do anything shady! It's just that, just... actually..." 

Haruhi's expression looks more and more like a hawk’s eye aiming at a target. 

"Actually what?" 

I manage to squeeze my words out with great difficulty with Haruhi's provocative glares fixed on 
me. 

"Nagato has had some troubles. Yea, that's it. She came to me to talk about it." 

To think at the same moment that you speak is quite a chore. It gets harder if you have to make 
up lies on the spot. 

"Actually, her problems aren't over yet. How should I put it... it's like... basically this is up to 
Nagato to resolve. I can only listen, and how to do it is also something that Nagato has to decide. 
Nagato has not told me what she will do, so of course I am worried, and maybe that's why I 
would look at her occasionally. " 

"What's Yuki have to worry about? Why would she go to you? Talking to me is alright too!" 

She still sounds skeptical. 

"I do not think that Yuki would find you to be more reliable than myself or Koizumi." 

"Basically anyone other than you is fine for Nagato to talk to." 

My free hand caught Haruhi whose eyebrow was way up high, and my brain finally resumed its 
free thinking. 

"It's really like that. Do you know why Nagato has to live alone?" 

"Family reasons? I don't like poking my nose into private matters, so I don't know for sure." 

"There's been changes to her family situation. Depending on the outcome, Nagato might have to 
end her days of living alone, renting her apartment." 

"Just what's going on?" 

"To put it simply, she might have to move. Leave that luxury condo and move to some place far 
away... maybe to a relative's place. Of course, that would have an impact on schooling, as she 



would need to transfer. She might have to go to another school by next spring when we head off 
to our sophomore year... 


"Really?" 

Haruhi's eyebrows have lowered, so just a little bit more would do. 

"Really. But no matter what her parents have said, she doesn't want to transfer out. She wants to 
stay at North High until graduation." 

"So she's worried over this..." 

Haruhi lowered her head for some time, but she faces me with anger when she lifts it up: 

"That's all the more reason to tell me about it! Yuki's an important brigade member, I wouldn't 
allow her to leave on her own!" 

I am satisfied the moment I hear her say that. 

"Talk to you. . . You would just blow this thing out of proportion. You would probably run off to 
her relatives' home and protest to them about Nagato transferring out." 

"That's true." 

"Nagato has had her mind made up about solving this on her own. Although she might be a bit 
puzzled, her heart lies with that clubroom. To keep dwelling on it is quite an emotional burden, 
so she decided to talk to me about it. I was hospitalized at the time, so she told me when she 
visited alone. It's just that there was nobody but me over there." 

"So that's it..." 

Haruhi sighed lightly. 

"So Yuki worries about such things...? She looks to be happy lately so I can't tell. Before 
vacation, I saw peons of the Denkensha giving her a full ninety degree bow. She didn't seem to 
mind it..." 

I try as hard as I might to picture what Nagato not minding that would look like, but I simply 
cannot, so I shake it off. Just then Haruhi suddenly lifts her head and says: 

"But, hmm, never mind. That does sound like what Yuki would do." 

Looks like she bought it. I let out the air in me. Just what part of this little serenade sounds like 
something that Nagato would do? Even I find it unbelievable. I should wrap this up given that 
Haruhi seems to have concluded that Nagato is that kind of a girl. 



"Don't leak this out to other people, and most definitely not to Nagato. Don't worry, she'll still be 
sitting in the clu broom and reading her books come next year." 

"Of course, or I wouldn't leave it at that!" 

"But..." 

I, whose wrist burns from Haruhi's steel grip, offer this supplemental explanation. 

"In case, just in case, if Nagato still has to transfer or is taken away by force, you can make as 
much of a ruckus as you like and I will stick with you all the way." 

Haruhi stares at me with soft eyes and blinks twice, following this with a wide open smile and 
says: 

"Of course!" 

By the time we returned to the main hall on the first floor, the three that were left behind had 
taken their jackets off, and they greet us with varying looks. 

For some reason, Asahina-san still seems as if she is almost in tears. 

"Kyon-kun, Suzumiya-san... you are back, finally..." 

"Why are you crying, Mikuru-chan. Didn't I say that we'll be back in no time?" 

Haruhi happily comforts Asahina-san, and touches her fine hair, while Koizumi gives me a most 
distracting expression. Just what is that look trying to say? Making a pass with that kind of stare 
is useless, it just won't reach my heart try as you might. 

The lone Nagato just stands there, looking directly at Haruhi with those dark pupils. She looks 
even more inanimate than usual. Even for an alien-made organic life form, having to go around 
in all that snow like a snow blower might be too taxing. I explain it this way so that I can 
comprehend it myself. Nagato is not a perfect individual. I thoroughly understood this point by 
now. 

"There is something that I need to tell you..." 

Koizumi approaches nonchalantly to my ear. 

"But you must keep this from Suzumiya-san." 

Since he puts it this way, I better hear this out. 


How long do you think that you and Suzumiya-san have been gone for? 



"Should be no more than thirty minutes." 

Even though I heard Haruhi ramble on about rubbish and had to lie to her, I felt as though we 
were only gone for that long. 

"I knew that you would say that." 

Koizumi sounds puzzled yet somewhat satisfied. 

"For us who stayed behind, three hours have passed from when you and Suzumiya-san set out 
exploring to the point that you came back." 

Nagato was the timekeeper, said Koizumi. 

"Mikuru-chan is upset because you have taken too long." 

The guy brushes some of his dried fringe aside, and goes on with a smile: 

"That is why I decided to carry out an experiment. I asked Nagato-san to head off to a corner 
where we cannot see her, and asked her to time herself for ten minutes before she returned." 

Nagato did so with no objection. She headed off to the passageway off to the side of the hall, and 
disappeared at the corner - 

"However, before I had even counted up to two hundred, Nagato-san had returned. I cannot help 
but wonder, since I felt as if that she had only been gone for about three minutes, but Nagato-san 
did in fact clock herself at ten minutes." 

Nagato can't possibly have been mistaken. Could it be that you either fell asleep, or rounded off 
incorrectly? 

"Asahina-san was counting quietly with me, and got around the same result." 

Is that so... I still feel that Nagato's figures would be more precise. 

"Not even I doubt the precision of Nagato-san. She cannot make an error with simple counting." 
What then? The world is like that. 

"I suspect that the flow of time within this mansion varies depending on the location... or that the 
perceptual time of each of us and the general time have a discrepancy. I cannot say which is 
more correct... it could be that both are valid." 


Koizumi looks at Haruhi who is comforting Asahina-san happily with a brash manner, and at me. 



"It would be best to move as a group, for I fear this chronological quarrel might worsen. It is 
rather a relief if that is the scope of the matter, for there are means to compensate if time 
disruption applies only within this building. However, what if this chronological quarrel had 
occurred before we were lured into here? What do you have to say about that storm which came 
without warning, and the trip without ever reaching the destination that followed? What if we 
were pulled into another space-time then..." 

I look at Asahina-san whose hair has been disheveled by Haruhi, and at Nagato. Her hairstyle, 
which was blown out of shape, has now dried and returned to normal, and even her complexion 
has returned to a white warmer than the white snow. 

I start to whisper to Koizumi. 

"And then, you and Nagato and Asahina-san must have had a group meeting? Any results?" 
"Asahina-san had nothing to offer." 

It is self-evident looking at her crying like that. The focus is now on that other person. 

Koizumi further lowers his voice. 

"She said absolutely nothing. She went off without a word also when I asked for her help earlier, 
and remained silent when she returned. When I asked her if she really did measure for ten 
minutes, she responded only with a nod. Otherwise she has revealed no other opinion." 

Nagato continues to stare still at the red carpet. Her poker face is the same today as it was 
yesterday. Although I feel as if she is somehow dumbfounded... am I just thinking too much? 
Just as I am about to show some sign of concern toward Nagato - 

"Kyon, what the hell are you doing? Hurry up and report to everyone!" 

Haruhi, with piercing glare, talks about the result of the expedition: 

"We came back after going around once, and it's all bedrooms from second floor and up. We 
thought that there'd be telephones..." 

"Yes, but we found none." I added. "In addition there is no television nor is there radio. We also 
didn't see any telephone jacks or wireless equipment." 

"I see." 

Koizumi touches his chin with his fingertip. 

"In other words, there is no channel to contact or to obtain information from the outside world." 


At least for floor two and up. 



There is not a shred of anxiety in Haruhi's smile: 

"It's fine if there's something on the first floor, although is there any? This house is so big, there 
might be a room used specially for communication somewhere." 

Let us then set out to find it - Haruhi uses a hand signal instead of a flag sign, and pulls the 
concerned Asahina-san to her side. 

I followed after Koizumi and Nagato, and we walked out. 

We settled in the dining room soon after. In a space furnished with antique style we found a 
luxurious, glittering, shining golden candelabra sitting atop a dining table with a white cloth 
cover over it. Such things are also seen in three-star hotel restaurants that I have never graced 
before so I know very little of them. Just look upward and there is another chandelier hanging 
from the ceiling, watching over the members of the SOS Brigade coldly. 

"There really is no one else." 

Haruhi lifts a steaming teacup to her lips. 

"Where did everybody go? Lighting and heating are still turned on. Talk about a waste of 
electricity. There's no communication room. Why is that?" 

The hot milk tea that Haruhi sips was just taken from the kitchen, which is of the same class as 
the ones in high-class restaurants along with the teacups and water bottles. While waiting for the 
water to boil, Asahina-san and Haruhi dug around and found glittering kitchen wares in a storage 
drawer that looks to be washed and dried. The extra large refrigerator houses quite a stock of 
food, making it hard to imagine that this is an abandoned house. It feels as if the moment we 
arrived, the inhabitants of the place just packed up and left. No, even that hypothesis has holes in 
it. For if that were true, then there should still be some sign of life in here. 

"It almost mirrors the Mary Celeste." 

Haruhi wanted to lighten the mood, but no avail. 

The exploration of the first floor was carried out with all five of us. Walking in file, we opened 
up any door that we come across, and each time we found something we could use. There was 
the laundry room with a massive washing machine, an enormous bath the size of a bath house, 
and even a gaming room complete with billiard table, ping-pong table and an automatic Mah- 
jong table... 

I only wish that the rooms over this corridor are not newly made space. 


There is another possibility... 



Koizumi puts the teacup on the saucer, and plays with the glimmering candelabra. I thought he 
wanted to claim it as his own, but after giving it a good appraisal, he placed it back where it was. 


"The inhabitants of the mansion went off on a trip before the storm started, but cannot return 
under this inhospitable weather." 

He shows a light smile, looks to be for the sake of Haruhi. 

"If so, then they will return when the storm dies down. Hopefully they will put themselves into 
our shoes, and forgive us for rudely intruding upon their property." 

"They definitely will, since we really have no place to go. Ahh, could it be that this mansion was 
set up as an emergency shelter for skiers like us who have lost their way? That would explain 
why there is nobody inside." 

"What kind of emergency shelter would have no telephone?" 

I sounded rather weary. We have accomplished so little after having all five of us heading door- 
to-door on this one floor. This building has no means to contact or to obtain information from the 
outside world, nor is there even a clock. 

But before all of this, I think that this mansion has clearly violated the building and fire codes. 

"Who on earth would build such a large and unwieldy emergency shelter?" 

"Maybe some national or municipal organization? Operating on the tax money of the people? 
Looking at it this way makes me feel justified drinking this black tea. I am paying tax after all. 
Mikuru-chan, give me a hand." 

"Eh? Ahh, okay." 

Asahina-san is dragged into the kitchen moments after throwing us a worried look. This is unfair 
for Asahina-san, but Koizumi's time distortion theory upsets me, so having Haruhi out of sight 
cannot come at a better time. 

"Nagato," I say to the short-haired girl who is staring at the bottom of the chinaware off to the 
side. 

"Just what is with this mansion? Where exactly are we?" 

"This space is providing significant stress to me." 

She tossed such a sentence at me. 

I don't get it. What does that mean? Couldn't you contact your maker or your patron, and ask for 
their help? This is an extraordinary situation. Is the occasional helping hand too much to give? 



The face that finally turns my way still shows no sign of emotion. 

"My connection to the Integrated Data Sentient Entity has been disrupted. Reason unknown." 

I didn't understand it because she put it so lightly. After getting myself together, I ask yet again. 
"... When did this happen?" 

"From my own perspective time, as of six hours and thirteen minutes ago." 

It is hard to have that expressed in numerical terms with the sense of time lost. Just as I am 
pondering - 

"Since the moment that we were plunged into the blizzard." 

The dark pupils are as still as before, but my heart is now brewing a torrent. 

"Why did you not say anything at the time?" 

I am not laying blame on her. Nagato's spell of silence is her own personal trait. Better to say that 
she's born with it rather than saying that she picked this up. 

"So you mean, this place is not the real world? Not only just this mansion... but also the snow 
mountain that we cannot get away from. All of this is an alternate space created by someone out 
there?" 

Nagato falls into silence for some time before saying: 

"I don't know." 

She sinks her head as if in defeat. I am somewhat anxious since this reminded me of Nagato that 
day. However, is there anything outside of Haruhi that could cause such an anomaly that not 
even this person could comprehend? 

I look towards the ceiling, and ask another member of the SOS Brigade. 

"What do you think? Anything to add?" 

"Nagato-san's comments aside, this anomaly is beyond my understanding." 

I pay some attention to the right honorable vice Brigade chief who is straightening himself a 
little: 

"From what I know, this is not the enclosed space in prior cases. This is not a space created by 
the will of Suzumiya-san." 



You positive? 


"Yes. You can call me an expert when it comes to the study of Suzumiya-san's mental activities. 
If she had changed the physical world, I would definitely know. However, Suzumiya-san has 
done nothing of the sort this time, since she did not hope for such contingency to occur. I can 
guarantee that this is in no way related to her. Let's bet on this if you want; no matter what you 
bet, I will double the wager." 

"Then who can it be?" 

I feel a slight sense of chill. It might have been because of the storm, but the view from the 
dining room window is a uniform grey. Even if a neon blue 'avatar' suddenly takes a peek inside, 
it wouldn't really clash with the background. 

Koizumi does a Nagato impression, and silently shrugs his shoulders. He doesn't seem to be 
worried. It could just be his acting abilities at play though, since he doesn't want to show his 
worried face to me. 

"Sorry to keep you all waiting!" 

Just then, Haruhi and Asahina-san carry a huge plate full of sandwiches toward us, as tall as a 
small mound. 

My biological clock tells me that we have not been waiting for all that long. It must have been no 
longer than five minutes since Haruhi had dragged Asahina-san along into the kitchen. However 
when I ask Haruhi while acting as if nothing has happened, it turns out that it must have taken at 
least thirty minutes to make all those sandwiches. Judging from the results, I don't think she is 
exaggerating. Each individual toast had been toasted, the ham and the cabbage all had to be 
flavored, the eggs were sliced after being fully boiled, and mayonnaise was used to top it all off. 
Just preparing the ingredients alone would have consumed more than five minutes. Besides, 
given the quantity of the sandwiches made, no matter how much corners were cut, quite a 
commitment in time would have been needed nonetheless. This is off topic, but I have to 
mention that the taste is pretty good. Of course, I had the chance to experience Haruhi's culinary 
skills in that Christmas stew already. Just what is this person not good at? Had I met her in 
elementary school, about the only subject that I could've trumped her at would be ethics maybe... 

I hit myself on the head. 

Now's not the time to think of such trivial things. The thing to really worry about is our current 
situation. 

Asahina-san seems to be mindful of who is eating her works. Whenever I started grabbing a new 
sandwich, she would look on intensely with anticipation, and her facial expression would go 
from relaxed to tense intermittently. You can tell really easily that the one before would be 
Haruhi's and the one after it Asahina-san's. 



There is something that she doesn't know. I haven't even told Koizumi. Haruhi most definitely 
must not know. 

Only Nagato and I are aware that there is something that I haven't done. 

That's right - 


I have yet to return to the past to save the world. 


I thought initially that this was not a priority, and getting around to it after New Year's would be 
fine. The fact that I had to somehow break it to Asahina-san only made me delay further. So 
leaving it till the next year and forgetting about it just won't do? What if we can never escape 
from this estate... 

"Wait, hold on." 

This is odd. Nagato and I, along with Asahina-san definitely headed to the past sometime in the 
middle of December. How else do you account for me seeing those three that time? To put it 
another way, we definitely will return to our rightful space-time. Thinking like that gives me 
some assurance. 

"Come, come, everybody dig in." 

Haruhi grabs the sandwiches and stuffs her mouth full with them while gulping down black tea at 
the same time. 

"There's still plenty left, dig in, I can make whatever you guys want. There is more than enough 
food in the storage for us to go through." 

Koizumi gives an awkward smile as he enjoys a ham and pork chop sandwich. 

"Delicious. Simply delicious. This is as good as the ones made in great restaurants." 

This exaggerated compliment is of course directed at Haruhi, although I don't really worry about 
her. Nor am I worried about Asahina-san who can't seem to enjoy the meal due to her guilty 
conscience acting up from using someone else's stock. 


tt 


n 


Rather, it's Nagato. 



To take only one small bite after another is not her typical way. 


The ferocious appetite of the alien-made organize artificial intelligence robot is nowhere to be 
seen. The hand to mouth motion seems to have decreased by half at least. 


After the scene degenerated to Haruhi and I going neck to neck to swipe the majority of the light 
meal- 

"Off to bath." 

Haruhi's sudden proposal meets no objection. It's her nature to assume that no objection means 
outright approval from everyone. 

"This bath is pretty big, but there's no gender separation, so it's a must that we take turns. As the 
chief, I cannot allow indecent acts to take place in the Brigade. Females first, any problem?" 

Having no real clue what to do first makes having a person such as Haruhi directing everyone 
step by step a good thing. That way we can focus elsewhere. If one is stuck without a lead, we 
might as well move the body in a mechanical fashion to stimulate the brain. Who knows if 
sudden sparks of inspiration will appear. Here's to my brain power. 

"Before that, let's decide on the rooms. Which one do you want? And yes they're all the same." 

According to Koizumi's hypothesis, it would be best to cram everyone into the same room, but if 
anyone even dares to propose such a thing, you can expect a straight punch from Haruhi coming 
right at you. Sometimes self-preservation comes first. 

"It's better for us to sleep in close proximity. Something like opposite or neighbouring rooms so 
long as we can get five of them." 

Having said these more serious words, Haruhi stands up. 

"Well then, let's sleep on the second floor." 


Haruhi walks out in broad steps, and we hurriedly follow. Before heading up we dumped the ski 
jackets left out in the hall into the dryer in the laundry room. 

Haruhi chose the five rooms closest to the staircase to address the matter of getting downstairs 
the moment that the owner of the estate returned. I sleep next to Koizumi, and the opposite 



rooms in order are taken up by Nagato, Haruhi and Asahina-san. Haruhi's room is dead opposite 
mine. 

The feel of the bedrooms remains the same as when Haruhi and I inspected them before. Each 
room has little furniture and it is just a place to crash. Even those cheap business suites have 
more furniture. Apart from an archaic dressing table, there are only curtains and a bed. The 
window is totally sealed shut. Look closely, and you'll see that it's a two layer type. Maybe that 
gives better sound insulation, since although horrendous weather brews outside, it remains quiet 
as a mouse inside, which actually gives a sense of suspense instead. 

Since we have no personal luggage to sort through, we decided that after claiming the rooms, we 
should meet in the passageway paved with red carpet. 

Haruhi speaks with a smile meant to provoke: 

"Kyon, you know what?" 

What do I know? 

"Who are you kidding? You definitely can't do the one thing that boys filled with worries would 
do in such a setting. I hate that mundane behavioural pattern." 

What should I do then? 

"Therefore..." 

Haruhi catches the arms of the two female members, leaning her head in right next to the hair on 
the side of the immobile Nagato, and lays everything out with a shout: 

"Don't peek!" 


I left, more like slipped out from my room as soon as the group of three girls walked away, the 
jittery Haruhi amongst them. The air is warm and the passageway is dead quiet, unaffected by 
the blizzard outside, but my heart is anything but calm. I am not gratified by this warmth 
contrasting with the chill in my heart. 

I tiptoe to the neighbouring room and knock on the door lightly. 

"May I help you?" 

Koizumi shows his face and unveils a welcoming smile. Just as he is about to speak, I put my 
index finger against my lips and he shuts his mouth in response. Without a word, I sneak into 



Koizumi's room. I actually would rather sneak into Asahina-san's room, but this is no time for 
that. 

"There is something that I have to tell you first." 

"Oh?" 

Koizumi sits by his bed and signals me to take a seat as well. 

"What might it be? I am curious. Is it something that must be kept from the other three?" 

"Well Nagato getting wind of this is ok." 

What is it? You still ask what it is about? 

Of course it is about what happened from the point that Haruhi had vanished to when I woke up 
in the hospital ward. The revival of Asakura Ryouko, the second coming of Tanabata three years 
ago, the SOS Brigade members on totally tweaked settings, adult Asahina-san and the world 
resurrection project up ahead- 

"This will take some time." 

Koizumi is a great listener. Not only does he give me good feedback when I come to a pause, he 
also retains the attentiveness of a top student all the way until the end. 

Since I only focus on the major points, it didn't take all that long for me to explain everything. I 
thought of going into grisly details for parts of the story, but with the concern of putting ease of 
understanding first, I opt for a compact summary. 

Koizumi exclaims after having listened to everything. 

"So that's it." 

He doesn't seem to be particularly moved. I see him touching the side of his mouth with a finger. 
"If everything that you have said is true, then I can only say that it is all very interesting." 

Are you trying to be courteous with that 'interesting'? 

"No, I really do think this way, for I thought of something in my mind as well. If you have 
experienced all those events, then my suspicion will have support." 

My facial expression should be along the lines of: "That's not good. Just what on earth was it that 
he thought of?" 


I suppose that it has weakened. 



What is it? 


"Suzumiya-san's power. That and Nagato-san's data manipulation ability." 

What are you talking about? I look at Koizumi. He shows that innocent smile of his. 

"Suzumiya-san creating enclosed space has become less frequent, which I mentioned to you 
during Christmas. Almost in response to this, I feel that Nagato-san's... how do I put it? That air 
of being alien? Such a feeling or sign seems to have drastically decreased." 

"...what?" 

"Suzumiya-san is increasingly becoming more and more like an ordinary girl. As is Nagato-san, 
who is less and less like a terminal for the Integrated Data Sentient Entity." 

Koizumi looks at me. 

"In my view, I cannot ask for a better development. If Suzumiya-san can come to terms with 
herself in reality, she would not need to think of things such as changing the world, which 
effectively will end my mission. It is also to my benefit should Nagato-san become an ordinary 
high school girl with no special power. As for Asahina-san... well, there is no difference to 
someone from the future no matter how things turn out." 

Koizumi continues with his monologue, as if I am not there. 

"You have to return to the past to restore the world and yourself back to normal. That is because 
your past self witnessed your future self with Nagato-san and Asahina-san- is that correct?" 

Aye. 

"However we are now lost on this mountain covered up by a blizzard. We find ourselves inside 
this strange mansion that someone has gone to great lengths to prepare for us, locked inside an 
alternate space that not even Nagato-san can comprehend. If this state of being continues, all of 
you will never return to the past. Therefore, at least you, Nagato-san and Asahina-san must 
return to normal space. No, it should be for certain that all of you returning to normal space is an 
established fact..." 

It would be weird if it were not so. I am not in a state of panic because of that. During that time I 
most definitely heard my own voice. Although, if I have yet to return to that point in time, going 
back to the past must be something that will be done in the future. This indicates that we won't 
be stuck in this crazy house with the raging storm outside forever as a safe escape is firmly set in 
stone. To paraphrase Asahina-san (big): "or else, the current you would not be here." 

"So that's it." 


Koizumi repeats the same line, and smiles at me. 



"However, I have other theories, but they are all pessimistic. To put it simply, they would be 
arguments which suggest that it doesn't matter even if we are never able to return to the original 
space-time." 

Stop with going around in circles, get on with it. 

After that lead-in, Koizumi lowers his voice carefully- 

"Suppose that we right now are not the 'original us', and are mere duplicates that exist in an 
alternate world." 

Koizumi keeps staring at me, as if waiting for me to digest those words. To be honest, I am 
having digestive problems. 

"I will word it another way to make it easier for you to understand. Suppose our minds were 
copied as-is and pasted to a digital space, what would happen? Let's assume that only the minds 
were moved as-is to an imaginary reality. 

"This is what you meant by duplicates?" 

"Yes. Anything can be duplicated, not just the mind. It is possible at the Integrated Data Sentient 
Entity class level. In other words, we who are caught in this alternate space are not the originals, 
and are merely accurate copies made at some fixed time. And as for our originals... well, perhaps 
they are partying happily at Tsuruya-san's estate as we speak." 

Wait a second. This has just gone way over my head. Could it just simply be that I lack 
knowledge? 

"I don't think so. To give a better example. Suppose you are playing some video game, let's say 
one of those fantasy type RPG games. It would be smart to save progress before you enter a cave 
with god knows what inside it. Saving the game is an obvious thing to do. Even if the entire 
party gets wiped out by the monsters, you can restart from the save point. As long as you 
duplicate all data, you can keep the master copy safe and let the duplicate version of the Brigade 
members take all the risk. Should something go wrong, pressing the Reset button will solve 
everything. Would you say that it is sensible to use this as a metaphor of our current situation?" 

"Koizumi..." 

A very intense sense of familiarity hits me the moment I let that out. Just like that feeling I 
experienced during that endless August with the sudden memory disconnect. What is it? I shout 
out in my mind for a memories which I should not recall. Come on! Hurry! 

I hazily said: 


Have we experienced anything similar in the past? 



You mean trapped in a snow mountain? No, not personally. 


"That's not it." 

It's not related to the snow mountain. I mean other than this encounter, I keep thinking that 
somewhere in my head there's memories of us being tossed into other dimensions... and some 
place very unreal... 

"You mean that time we took down the giant Cricket? That happened in an alternate space." 

"Not that one either." 

I keep wracking my brain and a barely visible watermark appears. There's Koizumi in strange 
clothing, Haruhi, Nagato with Asahina-san, and lastly myself. 

"Ahh there we go. Koizumi, for some reason, I keep thinking of you with a harp in hand and 
everybody being dressed in historical clothing and doing something..." 

"Are you trying to say that you have retained memories of previous incarnations? I thought you 
didn't believe in that." 

If there really is such a thing as reincarnation, people should be more understanding and would 
be more forgiving towards each other. That kind of stuff is just mere fantasy made for people 
that want to find an excuse to escape from the present reality. 

"Exactly." 

Damnit. I can't recall anything. My own logic dictates that I have no recollection of any alternate 
space, but my gut instincts deep inside tell me that is definitely not the case. 

What could it be, although I can only recall key words in fragments, there are fleeting visions 
such as kings, pirates and gunfights in a spaceship drifting about in my mind. Just what is with 
this? My memory tells me that there's nothing of the sort, but what's with these pieces that I can't 
seem to piece together that are intertwined inside my heart? I can't put the whole picture 
together. 

Who knows how Koizumi interprets my puzzled appearance? He continues with a calm tone: 

"If not even Nagato-san is able to interpret everything that has happened here, along with how 
this space is creating a burden to her, then it's basically not hard to conclude who the mastermind 
is, that has orchestrated this snow mountain disaster along with this mansion." 

I can say nothing. 

"It would have to be someone on the same level or surpassing Nagato-san." 



Who then? 


"I do not know, but, assuming the intent of the opponent is to force us into this crisis and make 
us stay put over here, Nagato-san would pose the greatest obstacle to that plan." 

Koizumi touches his lower lip. 

"Had I been that individual, I would target Nagato-san first, for she, unlike I who am powerless 
alone and unlike Asahina-san, Nagato-san is an alien android with direct connection to the 
Integrated Data Sentient Entity." 

From that description, this person might be above Haruhi. Whether it'd be a person or a whole 
group, I have no idea at all. But Nagato did say that her connection with her boss had been 
disrupted. 

"Perhaps the mastermind is far more powerful than even the creators of Nagato-san. If that is the 
case, than we are in effect already out of the game..." 

Right in the middle of his speech, the young chap seems to think of something, and crosses his 
arms around his chest. 

"You do recall Asakura Ryouko?" 

I had almost forgotten, but the series of unforgettable events this month has jogged my memory. 

"There exists a minority within the Integrated Data Sentient Entity who are radical elements. Just 
think, if they had a successful coup d'etat, what might happen? From our point of view, they are 
omnipotent entities. To isolate Nagato-san and detain us in another world over in some other 
dimension would be a walk in the park for them." 

I remember that sociable, outstanding and easy-going class rep, along with that sharp machete. I 
was attacked by her twice, and saved by Nagato twice. 

"At any rate, this will not affect the outcome. If we cannot leave this mansion, we will have to 
stay here forever." 

What? Is this Ryugu-jo [1]? 

"Bullseye. I can even say that we are being given the VIP treatment. Everything has been 
provided for. A comfortable mansion, fridge stuffed full of food, a bath house filled with hot 
water, comfortable bedrooms ... just about everything is here save the necessities that can help us 
leave this house." 

That existence would be meaningless. I am not so disappointed at my life as to want to stay in 
this unknown space and enjoy a carefree life. It is just too short to call my high school life over 
in less than one year. Other than the people here, there are still others that I want to see again. It 



is just too tragic to be unable to see my family as well as Shamisen, and you can count Taniguchi 
and Kunikida in as well. To top it all off, I don't like winter, sorry to the Icelanders, I don't think 
that I can ever get used to having to spend my life in frigid ice and snow. Call me a man that 
craves the heat of summer and the noise of a cicada. 

"I am much relieved hearing you say that." 

Koizumi sighs dramatically. 

"The aftermath of Suzumiya-san releasing her power after realizing the problem in the situation 
is anyone's guess. That might be the actual intent of the perpetrator. If there is no progress, one 
might as well put in some stimulus and provoke her into action. This is a common tactic. Should 
this really be a simulated environment, and if we are all mere duplicates of the original, the 
hidden hand would not need to be too reserved about anything. Very rarely do you see anyone 
having a sense of remorse from working video game characters to death. Aren't you like that as 
well?" 

Since he mentioned it, of course I don't feel remorse. However, video game characters are just 
numbers, and I'd rather be a real character within the real world. 

"The priority right now is to escape from here. It would be better to face disaster in the real 
world than to stay in this alternate space. There will be a way; no, rather we have to think of a 
way. Whoever it is that has Suzumiya-san and all of us trapped is evidently 'our' enemy. I do not 
mean 'us' as in the 'Organization' or the Integrated Data Sentient Entity, but rather the SOS 
Brigade." 

Whatever is fine. So long as you see eye to eye with me, I will see you as a brother. 

After that, I embarked on some deep thinking. Koizumi joins me in thought as he lifts his chin 
with his hand. 

Soon after- 

The sound of a light knock breaks the silence between me and Koizumi. I lifted my body, which 
was as heavy as if it were stuck to the bed by glue and opened the door. 

"Umm... the bath is now empty. The two of you can use it now." 

Asahina-san's facade shows blushes that are just right for displaying a sense of sweetness and 
innocence. A strand of rinsed hair stuck to the side of the cheek stirs up affection, and the thigh 
exposed from the slightly long T-shirt is incredibly sexy. If my mental state were in its normal 
state, I would be thinking about taking her back to my room, putting her in a corner and enjoying 
the view. 


Where are Haruhi and Nagato? 



I gaze at the hallway, and Asahina-san smiles beautifully. 

"They are drinking juice in the dining room." 

Seeming aware of my thirsty eyes, she pulls on the hem of the T-shirt. 

"Ahh, spare clothing is in the changing room. I got the T-shirt there. Towels and bathing 
necessities are all..." 

It is hard to express the sense of beauty of her being so timid and embarrassed. 

I turn my head with a look to thwart Koizumi's moves, quickly move to the passageway and shut 
the door with my hand reversed. 

"Asahina-san, I have a question." 

"What is it?" 

Those round, large eyes look up at me as her head leans off to a side with uncertainty. 

"What do you have to say about this mansion? I find it odd, how about you?" 

Asahina-san blinks her long and thick eyelashes and answers thusly: 

"Umm, Suzumiya-san thinks that this is a part of Koizumi-san's detective game... what is it 
called? Yes, something like a prelude. That's what she said in the bedroom." 

It's for the best if Haruhi can think of it like that, although it will be problematic if Asahina-san 
also sees it that way. 

"How then can you account for the irregularity in the flow of time? You witnessed Koizumi's 
experiment firsthand didn't you?" 

"Yes. But that's a part of the plan... right? Or is it not?" 

I press on my forehead, trying to hold off my sigh. I really don't know if Koizumi is that capable, 
but if even time dilation is a part of the whole setup, it would be too unfair not to give an 
advanced warning to Haruhi. Besides, isn't time the expertise of Asahina-san? 

I decide to take a shot at it. 

"Asahina-san, can you contact the future? Right now, right here?" 

"Ehh?" 


The puzzled childish face of the upperclassman looks at me. 



How can I tell such things to you ? Huhu. That's classified information! 


She chuckles as if she finds it funny, but I am not joking nor do I find it funny. 

However Asahina-san keeps laughing. 

"Enough of this, just go and take a bath, or else Suzumiya-san will get angry again. Hoho." 

With footsteps as light as butterflies flying about in a field of rapeseed flowers [2] in springtime, 
the diminutive upperclassman drifts toward the stairs, and disappears after turning her head over 
and tossing an unnatural, enchanting look at me. 

No good. Asahina-san cannot be depended upon. The only reliable one is... 

"Dammit!" 

I sighed towards the carpet. 

I really don't want to put additional stress on her right now. As luck would have it though, she is 
the only one that can turn things around for us. Koizumi's guesses are all just playing armchair 
strategist and who knows what kind of chaos Haruhi would unleash with her ways. Even if I 
were to hold the trump card, after all that horror talk that Koizumi gave me, I wouldn't act 
recklessly. It could well have been that the individual that had set us up in this situation had 
already anticipated this. 

"What to do now...?" 


I was banking on being able to come up with some good idea after taking a bath and improving 
my blood circulation, but my brain knows itself best. Even if I squeeze at it, not even half of an 
idea that might turn things around will come out. That is just a no-brainer. I don't feel 
discouraged, but it's kind of sad now that I think about it. 

Just as Asahina-san had said, the changing room has towels and spares ready. Elastic pants and 
T-shirts were lined up on the racks nearby. I put on a random set, and headed to the dining room 
with Koizumi. 

The three that bathed beforehand had placed a whole row of juice jugs on the dining table and 
have been waiting for us. 

"So slow, why the hell did you all take so long?" 

To me, that was only a little longer than the time a crow might take in the bath. 



I sip on the orange juice that Haruhi handed over, and my vision is directed not at Nagato, but 
outside the window. Perhaps because her body has warmed up, Haruhi is chugging at the canned 
juice happily with her good index finger shooting upward, Asahina-san has a smile from being 
oblivious to the current situation, while Koizumi who clearly understands everything does the 
same. Nagato seems even more minute than usual, could it be because her wet hair is hanging 
downward in a straight fashion? 

Although just what time is it right now? The view outside the window is still a snowstorm as 
before, but it seems gloomy and not pitch black, which gives me the chills. 

Haruhi seems to have lost the sense of time. 

"Let's go and play in the gaming room." 

Still in the mood to play. 

"Even Karaoke is fine, but we haven't played Mahjong for such a long time. The bet is three 
times the number of tiles, and anything goes, but I want to do major tiles, so there's no need to 
chip or to add points. We will decide based on the final points. Kokushi Shisan-men and Su- 
ankou Tanki on yakuman alright?" (note: Japanese Mahjong terminologies are unique) 

Although I don't want to complain about the rules of the game, I still slowly shake my head. 
Right now, what must be done isn't Karaoke, nor is it to bet on Mahjong, but to think. 

"I say that we should get some shut-eye. We'll have plenty of time to play later. I am really 
tired." 

Before this we had walked for hours with skis on our back, being half buried in the snow. Only 
Haruhi's muscles are not totally worked to exhaustion it seems. 

"That's true..." 

Haruhi seems to want to know which side the others are on. After examining everyone's 
expressions: 

"Fine, alright, let's take a break. But once we wake up I want everyone to play with their all." 

She announces with the glow of two to three nebulae coming from her pupils. 


After everyone returns to their respective den, I start to engage in a self-personality meeting 
inside my head as I lie on the bed to think of a way out. Sadly my personalities just had to expose 
my uselessness right at this moment as not even one constructive proposal comes out. Everyone 



stays silent, hoping that someone will break the ice. As the time passes by, minute by minute, my 
conscious becomes more and more hazy. Why would I say that? 

"Kyon-kun." 

I didn't even catch the sound of the door closing, or the footsteps of someone entering the room, 
nor the sound of rustling clothing. I got scared from this anyway, and I am just shocked by the 
silhouette of the person standing in the middle of the room. 

"Asahina-san?" 


The light in the room comes reflected off the snow, shining through the window with the shade 
pulled to one side. However, even in this dim light, I am sure that what I am seeing is correct. 
The one here is the cute fairy stationed in the clubroom, the lucky charm of the SOS Brigade, 
Asahina-san. 





Asahina-san reveals a smile on her face as she calls my nickname, moves ever so lightly and sits by my 
side. I scramble to sit up straight, as her naked legs close on each other. 


"Kyon-kun..." 


Asahina-san reveals a smile on her face as she calls my nickname, moves ever so lightly and sits 
by my side. I scramble to sit up straight, as her naked legs close on each other. There is an 
unexplainable surreal sense somehow. Looking closely, what she is wearing right now is 
different from the moment that we bid each other goodnight across the hallway. It is not that 
single long T-shirt, but the amount of cloth hasn't increased by much. 

At this time, Asahina-san is looking up at me, dressed in a white shirt that is almost ripped from 
my imagination, and she cannot get any closer to me. 



Well... 


That beautiful, childish face seems to want something. 

"May I sleep over here?" 

Her speech is enough to put both my lungs in my mouth, (crazy) 


Those dewy eyes look straight at my face as this cheeky Asahina-san leans on my shoulder 
softly. Wha... whawhawhat is this about? 

"I was scared by myself, kept tossing around and couldn't fall asleep... if I am beside Kyon-kun, I 
should be able to get a good sleep..." 

Hot body temperature seeps through that shirt. It is a heat that someone could mistakenly think 
of as burning. Something soft is pressing on me. Asahina hugs my arm, and presses her face 
closer to me. 

"Is it OK?" 

This isn't a matter of OK or not. There is no man or woman in this world that has the heart to 
turn down a pleading Asahina-san. So the answer is of course, yes, this bed is a bit too big for 
one person.... (hold it) 

Hoho, she lets my arm go with a gorgeous smile, and starts to unbutton that shirt which is 
already very loose. That bedazzling, soft curve slowly starts to reveal itself. The full bosom that I 
saw when she was forced into being a bunny girl by Haruhi, that I saw when I accidently barged 
into the clubroom and saw her changing, that I caught in a photo now sleeping deep within a 
hidden folder on the hard drive of the computer ... was now before me. (wake up, that's not it) 

Only two buttons left on the white shirt... no, one. This is more tempting than even full nudity, 
since the model is of high quality. Besides, no matter how you put it, the one doing these 
provoking poses is Asahina-san. (hey) 

Asahina-san takes a glance at me with her eyes tilting upward, and tosses a shy, teasing smile my 
way. Her finger finally lets the last button loose. Should I move my sight elsewhere? (keep your 
focus!) 

From the innards of the completely unbuttoned shirt, pure white skin moves up and down with 
each breath. On the body of this person that is so artistically crafted to perfection that even 
Venus herself will cower inside the clamshell (not telling you to look that way), on top of the 
half mound over that smooth and round breast, lies a very visible star... 


A deep breath comes forth from the depths of my throat. 



Hoo.J 


I jump out of my bed as if I had a spring in me. 

"No way!" 

Look closely! Why is it that I didn't notice this? The person before me is not 'my Asahina-san'. I 
should have known better than anyone else. Didn't I do this last time to verify for authenticity? 
You would know after looking at 'that spot' on Asahina-san. 

"Who are you?" 

-There is no mole on the left breast of this Asahina-san. 

The half-naked beauty sitting on the bed talks with a distressed look. 

"Why? You don't want me?" 

If this were the real Asahina-san (I told you she's not it!), I should still be able to hang on. No, 
nope. The problem isn't that. Asahina-san would never sneak in and seduce me. I am hooked 
without her having to do that. 

"You are not Asahina-san." 

I keep retreating, and gazing upon those alluring eyes that are about to burst into tears. My 
reason is about to derail. How can a man make a lady sad. This isn't related to her not being 
Asahina-san right? (get a grip of yourself) 

"Please don't do this." 

I finally utter this out. 

"Who are you? Are you the maker of this strange house, an alien or a slider? Why did you do 
this?" 


"...Kyon-kun." 

The Asahina-san before me sounds so sad. Her head lies low and her lips are twisted from being 
depressed. And then- 


She turns around and flies to the door like wind, her shirt lifted about in the air. The moment she 
leaves the room, she turns around, looks at me with tears in her eyes and heads to the hallway. 
The bang is surprisingly loud, and that sound wakes my memory. I locked the inner lock. 
Without a key there should be no way to get in from outside. 



Please, wait a second! 


In that instant I suddenly say this in a respectful tone and run to the door to open it. 

Bang! A loud noise is made. No matter how forceful I get, the sound of a door opening shouldn't 
be so intense that my abdomen would tremble. Just as I thought of this- 

"Ehh, you..." 

I run straight into Haruhi. Haruhi, with her room directly opposite mine, has her head out of the 
door, and looks at me with her mouth wide open. 

"Kyon, you were in my room a moment ago... or were you?" 

There are more people than just Haruhi and me with their head stuck out into the hallway. 
"Umm..." 

Haruhi's neighbor to the right, 'T-shirt' clad Asahina-san is also puzzled and has her door half- 
open. As for the neighbor to the left- 


Nagato's slim body is present. I look over the side- 
"What was that..." 

Koizumi touches the tip of his nose, and gives me a strange look along with a very awkward 
smile. 

It becomes clear that the reason why the reverberation from opening the door was so loud was 
because all five of us had opened our doors at the same time. This would be the resonance of an 
ensemble of five. 

"Why everyone? Something happen?" 

Haruhi's mind returns first and talks as if she is staring right at me. 

"Why is everyone out of their room at the same time?" 

I went after the fake Asahina-san- just as I was thinking of saying that, I realized something. 
Haruhi's prior words were not grammatically sound. 

"How about you then? You wouldn't be out to go to the toilet." 



Surprisingly, Haruhi actually lowers her head, bites on her lower lip and only opens up after 
some time. 

"I had the strangest dream. I dreamed that you had sneaked into my room and you didn't talk like 
you would have... urr, and you did things that you wouldn't do. I found it odd... in the end, I 
punched you hard and you ran off! that's an odd dream! Right? But it didn't feel quite like a 
dream. " 

If that was a dream, then this would be a continuation of the dream. As I look at the vexed 
Haruhi with locked eyebrows, Koizumi heads to my direction. 

"I, as well." 

He stares right at my face. 

"You appeared in my room as well. The appearance might have been you, but the behaviour was 
just terrifying... anyways, you did things that you wouldn't do." 

I start to get frightened out of the blue. My sight moves away from that smiling face of Koizumi, 
seemingly up to something, and turns instead towards Asahina-san. This is the real McCoy. One 
look and there's no question about it. How could I have mistaken that person as her? Whether it'd 
be the feel or in her actions, she cannot compare to the bona fide Asahina-san. 

Perhaps my gaze embarrasses her. Asahina-san blushes. Did I appear before her? Just as I 
assume that to be the case- 

"Suzumiya-san came into my room." 

Her fingers are caught together and move uneasily. 

"That strange Suzumiya-san... I don't know how to describe it, was like a fake..." 

Yes, definitely a fake. That is for sure, the problem for this to have happened. Why did fake 
versions of ourselves appear in each other's room? Asahina-san in mine, I went to Haruhi and 
Koizumi's rooms, and Haruhi in Asahina-san's room... 

"Nagato." I keep pressing. "Who came into your room?" 

The stoic facade of Nagato, who is in a t-shirt as is Asahina-san, lifts up and looks directly into 
me: 

"You." 

Having said that in a whisper, she slowly closes her eyelids. 


And then- 



...Yuki?! 


With the background music composed of Haruhi's puzzled shout on the side, I witness an 
unbelievable scene. 

Nagato, the very Nagato Yuki falls, as if pressed down by an unseen demonic hand, flat on the 
ground. 

"Yuki! What happened? Yuki..." 

Everyone is too surprised to utter a word, and are dumbstruck frozen on the scene, with only 
Haruhi rushing in and lifting that small body up. 

"Whoa... so hot! Yuki, are you alright? Yuki? Yuki!" 

The sleeping face of Nagato had her eyelids shut and head slanted downwards. My instinct told 
me however that Nagato is not in a sound slumber. 

Haruhi hugs Nagato's shoulder and hollers out with a sharp gaze: 

"Koizumi-kun, get Yuki onto her bed quickly. Kyon, go find some ice pillows. There should be 
some over there. Mikuru-chan, go prepare the wet towels." 

Seeing how I, Asahina-san and Koizumi stand still, Haruhi barks out again: 

"Hurry up!" 


After seeing Koizumi lifting up the entirely collapsed Nagato, I head off downstairs in a hurry. 
Ice pillow, ice pillow, ice pillow, where might the ice pillow be? 

It would be that I hadn't fully recovered from the shock of seeing Nagato fainted that led me to 
be frozen in place earlier. It just seems to be impossible. That's why the case of fake Asahina-san 
in my room and fake versions of ourselves roaming about in each others' rooms is something that 
I am just so sick of that I want to forget about it. Leave it alone. That has nothing to do with me. 

"Damn!" 

This is just bad. Curses. I was hoping to let Nagato live a peaceful life like a normal person for 
the next few days, who knew that the exact opposite would happen. 


There is no trace of any ice pillow anywhere, so I wind up in the kitchen by instinct. My own ice 
mat is not in the emergency kit, but in the fridge. Where would it be in this strange house? 



Wait. 


I stop my hand as I hold onto the handle of the fridge door. I pray as hard as I can in my head 
after having visualized the image of an ice pillow in my head. 

Following that, I open the fridge. 

"...there." 

The blue ice pillow sits atop the cabbage. 

Everything really is provided for. This is way too convenient. I don't know who pays such 
attention to detail, but it will only lead to an undesired outcome. I am more resolute thanks to 
that fellow. 

We definitely can't stay in a place like this. 


I have walked all the way out of the dining room with the rock solid ice pillow, and I see 
Koizumi standing over in the entrance hall, giving attention to the door at the portal. What is he 
doing here? Did the right honorable Haruhi order him to dig out snow to cool Nagato down? 

Just as I am about to give him a few words of advice, Koizumi has spotted me and opens up first: 

"You have come just in time. Take a look at this." 

And he points to the door. 

I swallow my saliva and look towards where his points to. I see something quite incredible, and 
am so surprised as to be choked of words. 

"What... what is that!" 

That is all that I can squeeze out of myself. 

"We didn't see this before." 

"Yes, this was not here. I was the last one to have entered the house. When I shut the door, I did 
not see anything like it at the time." 

On the inner side of the door, something hard to describe is attached to it. The closest things to 
compare it to would be control panels or interface panels I guess. 



A board about fifty centimeters in length is embedded into the door- or is it an interface panel? A 
bunch of symbols and numbers that give me nothin but headaches are written on the panel. 

I look at them patiently. The top row is - 


x-y = (D-l)-z 


The bottom row is labelled: 


x= □ , y= □ , z= □ 


□ part is concave inward. It's only just short of having someone tell you to socket something in. 
Just as I look at those indentations with a confused look- 

"The accessories are over here." 

Koizumi points to a group of numbered blocks placed inside a wooden frame on the floor. 
Looking at it closely I see that three rows of digits from 0 to 9 are stored there. I bend down to 
take one out and have a look at it. The appearance is like a Mahjong tile as is the weight. The 
only difference is that the pattern carved onto it is that single digit Arabic numeral. 

Ten kinds of digits are divided into three groups, and placed in a flat wooden box. 

"These should be the numbers that we are to use to solve the equation." Koizumi picks one up as 
well to examine it. "Perhaps they are to be slotted into the empty squares." 

I look back at that equation and my head hurts again. Mathematics has always been a source of 
pain as a matter of course for me. 

"Koizumi, can you solve this?" 

"I seem to recall the equation, but these hints are not enough. If this is purely to equate the values 
on both sides, then there exists an innumerable amount of possible combinations. To reduce that 
number to only one set, there need to be more conditions set." 

I look at the most unique letter out of the four. 

"What would this D be? It might not need to be resolved." 

"It is the only one in upper case." 


Koizumi plays with his number 0 tile and says in a lowered voice: 



"This equation... I really have seen it before, but I have no idea that it would appear over here... 
what is it? I keep thinking that I have had seen this only recently..." 

He locks his eyebrows and stands still. A rarity for Koizumi to show such a face deep in thought. 
"So? Do you think there's special meaning in that?" 

I put my tile back into the wooden frame. 

"I know that a mathematical question suddenly appeared from the inner side of the door, but 
what does that mean?" 

"Hmm." 

Koizumi's attention returns. 

"I think this might be the key, since the double door is locked. To open it from the inside is 
impossible. It is a waste of effort to try turning the handlebar." 

"What did you say?" 

"Go ahead and try it for yourself. See, there is no keyhole over the inner side of the doors, nor is 
there a key slot." I tried and can't open it. 

"Who might have locked it? Even if this were an automatic, it should be openable from the 
inside." 

"This further proves indirectly that this space is beyond common sense." 

Koizumi returns to his meaningless smile. 

"The identity of the perpetrator is unknown, but it is clear that the opponent intends to imprison 
us in here. The windows have been sealed shut and the doors soundly locked..." 

"If so, just what is the equation on the interface panel for? Some puzzle for us to pass the time?" 

"If my guess, if correct, this equation would be the key for us to open the door." 

Koizumi continues with a carefree tone: 

"I also think that this is the last means of escape that Nagato-san has left for us." 



I have reawakened my recent memories, and am totally immersed in recollection, but Koizumi 
pays no heed to it and keeps up with his rhetorics. 


"This can be said to be an information conflict. It is a kind of warfare that is under some form of 
limitation. Someone has imprisoned us in this alternate space, and Nagato-san has left us with an 
escape route in advance to combat this dark faction. This equation is the result. We should be 
able to return to our world by solving the equation, or else we will remain here." 

Koizumi knocks on the door. 

"I am not clear as to what kind of a battle it is, but if it is an all-out struggle between some 
sentient lifeforms, it would be waged on a plane beyond our imagination, and this is only the 
physical manifestation of that struggle. That interface should be the end product of this fight." 

An equation that is totally out of place in this strange, mysterious house. 

"It is no coincidence that soon after our strange dream, Nagato-san fainted and this interface 
panel appeared... these events are not isolated phenomena, but are all somehow interrelated." 

Koizumi goes on, being quite good at hiding the anxiety in his heart. 

"This would be a key out of this alternate space, an escape key forged by Nagato-san." 

That makes me look all over the board for any markings of 'Copyright © Yuki Nagato'. 
Unfortunately I cannot find such a thing. 

"Basically, this is only my own prediction. Nagato-san has only limited powers at her disposal 
inside this space. Seeing as her connection to the Integrated Data Sentient Entity has been 
severed, she could only use her innate abilities, which resulted in this roundabout solution." 

You may call it prediction, but your tone is rather decisive. 

"Hmm, that is true. The 'Organization' has tried to make contacts with other sources of 
connection, so I do hold a certain amount of intelligence." 

Although I really would like to hear more about other aliens, it simply isn't the time for that. The 
pressing matter is to solve this equation written on this interesting interface. As I look at the 
symbols on the interface panel as well as the group of numbers in that wooden frame, the calm 
voice of Nagato comes to mind. 

"This space is providing significant stress to me." 

I do not know who might have set the trap to lure us into this weird house in the snow, but I 
definitely cannot forgive the person that caused Nagato to have a high fever and to faint. That 
and the alien bastard won't have their way! No matter what, we will all leave this place and 
return to Tsuruya-san's villa! No exceptions, the entire SOS Brigade will leave this place. 



Nagato has already done her part. Although I did not witness it nor had I heard of it, she no doubt 
had been waging warfare against the invisible 'enemy' since we had intruded into this alternate 
space. This must have been the reason why she seemed more withdrawn than usual. She fought 
with everything she had, but she still left us a small opening. Well then, what comes next would 
be for us to open this door. 

"We have to leave this place." 

Koizumi returns a crisp smile towards my declaration. 

"I plan to do so as well. No matter how comfortable, this is not a place to stay in. Utopia and 
Dystopia are two sides of the same mirror." 

"Koizumi." 

The seriousness in my tone surprises even myself. 

"Can you not bore a hole into the gates somehow? The situation is rather grim. Nagato has 
already fallen ill, so the only one that has any power is you." 

"You have overestimated me by far." 

Even faced with such adversity, Koizumi still responds with a smile. 

"I have never said that I am an all-powerful esper. My abilities can only be triggered under a 
certain set of conditions. This is something that you should-" 

I grab the front of his shirt and pull him over before Koizumi finishes his bullshit. 

"I don't want to hear that!" 

I stare at Koizumi and his sneering, smirking lips. 

"Alternate space is your speciality. Asahina-san cannot be depended upon, and Haruhi's a bomb 
that can go off at any time. Didn't you show off your powers the last time when we faced the 
cricket? Or is it that the 'Organization' festers a bunch of nincompoops?" 

Actually, I am like that too. I can't do anything, not even the most basic of sound judgments. I 
can say that I am lower than Koizumi. The only thing that I can think of at the moment is to beat 
Koizumi into a bloody pulp, and then have him pummel me back. I can't vent my anger by 
punching myself since I will go easy on myself. 

"What the hell are you all doing?" 


A sharp sound shoots out from behind us, and it seems to be rather displeased. 



"Kyon, didn't I tell you go find ice pillows? I ran down after having to wait for an eternity on 
you, and lo and behold, you and Koizumi are practicing how to fight. Just what is your head 
loaded with?" 

Haruhi has her arms crossed about her waist, and stands firmly with both legs. The scene looks 
like an old man that lives around my house catching a thief stealing persimmons red-handed. 

"Still goofing around at this hour! Think of Yuki, even for a second!" 

Haruhi treats the standoff between Koizumi and me as mere play, maybe because her heart is 
elsewhere. I let Koizumi loose and pick up the ice pillow that dropped onto the ground some 
time ago. 

Haruhi grabs it from me. 

"What is that?" 

Haruhi's sight quickly converges on that strange equation. Koizumi straightens himself out and 
answers: 

"No idea. Both of us were thinking about this. Does Suzumiya-san have any opinion?" 

"Isn't that the Euler formula?" 

Haruhi says that without even thinking, what a bummer. Koizumi responds: 

"You mean Leonhard Euler? The mathematician?" 

"Yes, the mathematician, but I don't know his name." 

Koizumi re-examines the strange interface panel, and stares for several seconds. 

"Yes." 

He snaps his fingers as if he is acting in front of somebody. 

"This is the Euler's Planar Graph Formula, or rather a variation. As expected of Suzumiya-san." 

"It might not be it. That D though must mean dimensional factor. I guess." 

Whether or not that is correct, I have a bunch of questions in my head. Who is Euler, and what 
did he do? What is the Planar Graph Theorem? Did we ever do this in math class? Just as I am 
about to raise my questions, I suddenly remember that I have mostly slept through my math 
classes! So I don't dare to raise my doubts. 



"No, this is not a part of the high school curriculum. However the seven bridges of Konigsberg 
question should not be foreign to you." 


Ahh, that one I know. Math taught by Yoshizaki would occasionally refer to some of these hard 
questions during his lectures. This question would be that illustration showing two islands and 
streams with interconnecting bridges? I remember that there is no solution. 

"That's right." Koizumi nods. "That problem is on a flat plane, but Euler proved that one can 
view a surface as a three-dimensional object. The Planar Formula is one of his many legendary 
works." 

Koizumi continues to explain. 

"This principle holds for all polyhedra [3]. The result of taking the number of vertices plus the 
number of sides minus the number of edges must be 2." [4] 


Having seen that look of wanting to toss aside all things related to mathematics, Koizumi gives a 
wry smile and puts one hand behind his back. 

He takes a black oil-based marker out. Where'd he get that? Was it purposely hidden? Or the 
same way that I got the ice pillow? 

Koizumi kneels on the ground and starts to doodle on the red carpet. Neither Haruhi nor I try to 
stop him, seeing as no one cares if someone is painting graffiti all over this place. 

Koizumi creates the picture of a dice-like polyhedron. 





"As you can see, this is a regular hexahedron. The number of vertices is 8, the number of 
surfaces is 6. There are 12 edges. 8+6-12=2... that is true, is it not?" 

As if that weren't enough, Koizumi has drawn a new shape. 



"This time I have drawn a pyramid. There are 5 vertices, and 5 surfaces. There also 8 lines. 5+5- 
8 is still 2. Therefore, even if the number of sides increases to hundreds of sides, the answer is 
still 2 (the Euler characteristic), which sums up Euler's polyhedra principle." 

"Really? I think I got that then. But... what does Haruhi mean for dimensional factor?" 

"That is very simple. The principle can be used not only on three-dimensional objects, but also 
on flat surfaces. It's just that the formula becomes 'points + sides - edges = T. The seven bridges 
problem is rooted from this principle." 


A new sketch appears on the carpet. 


As you can see, this is a five point star drawn with a single stroke. 


This time around I will count it out for myself. There are 1,2... 10 vertices. Sides well... 6 
surfaces. Lines is the biggest with um... total of 15. The answer of 10+6-15 is 1. 

While I was busy counting, Koizumi has already completed the fourth graph. It looks like a 
misdrawn Big Dipper. 



"This applies even with such a doodle." 


You really don't need to go through the trouble. Alright, since you've drawn it, I might as well 
take the time and add it up. Umm... there are 7 vertices, 1 surface... lines... maybe 7? I see, the 
answer really is 1. 

Koizumi puts the cap back on his pen with his signature smile. 




"At any rate, the characteristic is 2 for three-dimensional polyhedron, and 1 for planar objects. 
Got it? Now take a look at the equation." 

The pen points to the interface panel. 

"x-y = (D-l) -z is. x is the number of vertices, and we can derive by reworking the Euler Formula 
that y would be the edges. It is only evident after examination that z, originally on the left, would 
be the number of sides and has been shifted to the right and negated. As for this (D-l), if we 
substitute in the Euler characteristic where 2 would be for three-dimensional objects and 1 for 
planar, D would be respectively 3 or 2. That D would be initial for Dimension'." 

I listen silently and work my brain while at this. Hmm. I have a general idea now. So the 
equation on the board is related to Mr. Euler's what's that called principle, I got it. 

"And then?" 

I ask. 

"What would the answer be? What numbers in the frames are we to use to substitute for x,y and 
z?" 

"Well..." 

Koizumi answers. 

"Without the original polyhedron or the planar graph to use as reference, I cannot resolve that." 

Isn't that just a load of crap, where is that? Where are we going to find that original graph that 
you have mentioned? 

Don't know- Koizumi lifts his shoulder, and I start to panic. 

Just then- 

Haruhi, seeming totally lost in the equation, suddenly barks out as if she remembers something: 
"This really isn't important - oh yeah, Kyon!" 

What the hell! 

"You better go and visit Yuki later on!" 

I will go without you having to remind me, but do you really have to boss me around and coax 
me like that? 


Because that girl called out your name, although only once. 



My name? That Nagato? You're kidding? 

"What did she call me?" 

"Just 'Kyon'!" 

Nagato has never called me by my name, not even once. Ahh, that is to say, be it my name or my 
nickname, Nagato has never called me by them. Whenever we talk face to face she always refer 
to me in second person... 

An irregular thin sense of emotion lifts from my chest. 

"No..." 

Koizumi objects. 

"Is it really 'KYON'? Are you sure that you have not have made a mistake?" 

What's he up to? Got an opinion on Nagato's murmuring? 

"Suzumiya-san, this is very important. Please try to remember." 

This is quite strong a wording for Koizumi. Even Haruhi finds it surprising, as she thinks back 
with her eyes looking up above. 

"Hmm... well I didn't catch it very clearly. It might not have been KYON. That and she 
whispered it. It could've been HYON or ZEON. It is definitely not KYAN or KYUN." 

"I see." 

Koizumi answers in satisfaction. 

"So that means the first syllable is unclear so we only caught the end. Hahaha, so that's it. 
Nagato-san might not have meant to say KYON, or even ZYON, but YON (four)." 

"Four?" I said. 

"Yes, the very number '4'." 

"So what if it's 4..." 

I stopped and look back at the equation. 

"Hey!" 


Haruhi impatiently toots her lips. 



"We haven't the time to play around with this number game! Would you worry about Yuki for a 
second? I can't stand you two ! " 


She tosses the ice pillow as her eyes forms into triangles. 

"You've better take a look at Yuki! You hear!" 

After belting that out, she stomps, stomps, and stomps as she heads upstairs. We send her away 
with our eyes, and Koizumi only starts the conversation after she's gone, full of confidence in 
both tone and looks. 

"All the conditions are now present. We can now solve for x, y, z." 


"Please think back to our prior encounter. The fake version event that Suzumiya-san thought of 
as a dream, but I find it hazily real." 

Koizumi picks up the pen again as he bends his back. 

"Let us draw a graph showing whose apparition appeared in whose room." 

Koizumi starts by drawing a dot on the carpet, and labels it 'KY'. 

"This would be you. Asahina-san went to your room." 

From there a line is extended and a dot is made on its end and is labelled 'ASA'. 

"Suzumiya-san appeared in Asahina-san's room." 

This time, he draws a line to the rear left diagonally, and writes 'SUZU' on the new dot. 

"The one that has entered into Suzumiya-san's room would be you." 

And following that, he extends a line from 'SUZU' to 'KY' and completes a right triangle. 

"And the one that entered my room would be you. Ahh, I should say a person that looks like you 
but not you. I believe that you would not have done what he did even if you went insane." 

A line is drawn downward through 'KY' and the point is called 'KO'. 

"Nagato-san also said that you have entered into her room." 

Now I see. Koizumi seals the pen and stops after drawing a line extended from my point to the 
right, an end point called 'NAGA'. 



"Everything is interrelated. It almost seems that the fake versions of ourselves that appeared 
seemingly in dream and for real were apparitions made by Nagato-san." 

I stare at the newest graph made by Koizumi without moving my eyes from it. 


$8 (ASA) 



It is exactly a '4' drawn in one stroke. 

"It is now just a matter of directly applying this graph towards the equation on the door. This 
graph happens to be related to our double. Since it is a planar graph, D would be '2'." 

Koizumi brushes his fringes aside and continues with a smile: 

"x=5, y=5, z=l. That is the answer. Both sides reduce to 0." 


I save myself the time to stay in awe or to praise it at all, as I hurry myself to get those tiles. 
Three of them. Now that the answer's out, what are we waiting for! 

However Koizumi seems to still have some last doubts. 

"What I am afraid is whether or not this is a delete program?" 

Let's ask first. What would that be? 


"If we are really duplicated copies of our personalities, then there exists no reason to really go 
out of our way to leave this alternate space, so long as our originals stay safe and sound in the 
real world. " 



Koizumi lays his hands out. 


"This mechanism might be set up so that the moment we solve this equation, we will be deleted. 
For us, such action would amount to suicide. Do you wish to carry on with our lives here forever 
with no change whatsoever, or would you rather be deleted? Which do you prefer?" 

Neither. Although I don't have the will to have eternal life, but I am not so down as to hope for 
my demise right now. I am me. There is no one that can substitute for me. 

"I believe in Nagato." 

Even I am surprised by how calm I appear to be. 

"I believe in you as well, for I believe your answer is the correct one. However that trust is only 
limited to that equation." 

"I see." 

Koizumi smiles kindly as if he knows telekinesis. Following that he takes a step back. 

"I leave the rest to you. Should something go wrong, I will stand with you by the side of 
Suzumiya-san, for it is my duty and my mission." 

It's fine if that's what you want, as long as you're happy with it. There aren't many jobs that you 
are actually happy to do in this world. 

Koizumi retracts his smile slightly, and shows a degree of earnestness. 

"If we really do return to normal space, then I would like to make a promise to you." 

He continues calmly. 

"Following this, should anything happen that will push Nagato-san into a tight corner, I will 
betray the 'Organization' once and stand by your side no matter how beneficial it might be for the 
'Organization'." 

Why stand by my side? Standing by Nagato's side is the right thing to do. 

"Should such a situation develop, you will no doubt be the first to support Nagato-san. Helping 
you will amount to helping Nagato-san, although it may be by proxy." 

His lip twitches. 

"Personally, I believe Nagato-san is a vital member. When the time comes, I will lend a hand to 
Nagato-san. Although I may be a part of the 'Organization', I am the deputy chief of the SOS 
Brigade before that." 



A look of concern fills Koizumi's eyes, and the expression on his face seems to have the 
determination to deny any way of backing out, as well as having relinquished the right to defend 
himself. If so, I don't need to hold back and should just do what my gut instinct tells me to do. 

In the middle of December- 1 was left all alone in a foreign world, and had only managed to 
escape by running everywhere. This time of course I will do the same. However, unlike that time 
I am not fighting alone, but instead am working with everyone in the SOS Brigade to find a way 
out of here. Ryugu-jo is not worth longing for. It is not we but this space that must vanish. 

Without any hesitation, I slide the tiles into their designated slots. 

'click'- a small but crisp noise is heard. It is very much like the sound of door being unlocked. 

I focus all of my attention onto the handle, and it turns! 

The gates slowly open. 


There have been times in the past when I was too taken aback to say anything. Or I was 
dumbfounded, or in hysteria or even absolutely mortified! All sorts of similar experiences come 
to mind: "You're not joking?" But after living through time and space being bent like a rubber 
band, even I was about as resilient as a cockroach after being sprayed, and to totally collapse 
right about now would not be surprising. 

Looks like I better retreat for now. 

I, the one that opened the heavy gates- 


- have entered into a state where I can't make a noise no matter how hard I try. 

I cannot believe what I am seeing. Why are my optic nerves sending such a scene into my brain? 
Is it because I have finally snapped? Is it that my retina and cornea have finally given up? 

The piercing light makes me dizzy. The bright sunlight shines from the above. 

"-this is..." 


The weather is as clear as a crystal ball. Not even a snow flake has fallen upon us, let alone a 
snow storm. It is clear as far as the eye can see, without a cloud in the sky. There exists only... 



...the lift cables cutting across our field of vision. The swinging seats have pairs of skiing couples 
on them. 

My fumbling feet, for some reason, have become so hard to lift. 

It is the snow. I am caught in a field of snow. The glittering white landscape dazzles my eyes, 
driving me ever more faint. 

I feel as if something is up, and when I lift my head, a figure whisks by me in a hurry. 

"Whoa?!" 

I jump in reflex as I follow the shadow with my eyes. The skier had dodged me as if I was an 
obstacle on a ski run. 

"This is..." 

The skiing ground, simple as that. Without taking even a close look, one can see the skiers 
everywhere having all kinds of fun as they come into view quite naturally. 

I look to the side, and I suddenly feel as if my shoulders have quite some weight on them. That 
would be from having the skis and the poles on my back. After that I look at my feet, and I find 
myself wearing ski boots. As for what I am wearing right now, well it is the skiing outfit that I 
was given before I stepped out of Tsuruya-san's mansion. 

I turn around hurriedly. 

"Aaa..." 

Asahina-san looks like a Koinobori (carp flag) in the wind, with her mouth and eyes wide open. 
"Unbelievable..." 

Koizumi looks at the sky in astonishment. Both of us are in familiar getup and definitely not in 
T-shirts. 

That strange house has vanished without a trace. Looks like it will not appear again. This is just a 
simple skiing paradise. The mansion unmarked by maps has evaporated to the point that there 
isn't even any steam left... 

...to put it another way. 


"Yuki?!" 


From where the sound originated it seems that Haruhi is dead ahead! I turn my head and eyeballs 
around to look for her. 



Haruhi is right next to Nagato as she helps Nagato out of the snow. 

"Are you alright, Yuki? You're still running a fever... eh?" 

Haruhi glances around like a Hyrax peeking out of its den. 

"That's odd... we were in the mansion." 

And then, she finally sees me. 

"Kyon, something's up..." 

I have not replied, and have merely put my skis and poles down and kneel beside Nagato. Haruhi 
and Nagato are both wearing the same set of clothes that they were in before the snow storm, 
when we were 'racing'. 

"Nagato." 

Answering my call, her hair moves slightly and she slowly lifts her head. 

tt »l 

The poker face is still frozen as those pupils as large as they usually are look toward me. Nagato, 
with snow all over her, fixes her sight on my face just like that. 

"Yuki!" 

Haruhi knocks me out of the way, and is now holding Nagato. 

"I don't really know what had happened, but... Yuki, are you awake? Are you still running a 
fever?" 

"No." 

Nagato replies lightly, as she stands on her own feet. 

"I have merely tripped." 

"Really? But you were running a fever before., eh? What happened?" 

Haruhi puts her hand on Nagato's forehead. 

"Wow! Your fever is gone. But..." 

Her eyes come back after having taken a panning view of the scenery. 



"Eh? Snowstorm...? mansion...? No way? That wasn't like a dream... Ehhhh? Or... was that really 
a dream?" 


Don't ask me about it. I can deny technical support service to you and just you. 

As I am planning to feign innocence, the sound of a lively "hey-!" comes to me from a short 
distance away. 

"What's up?" 

Tsuruya-san shouts out. Three snowmen from large, middle to small stand next to her, and a 
figure about as tall as the medium one also to the side. That hopping figure that's looking this 
way would be my little sister. 

We have managed to reorient ourselves. 

We are not far from where the lifts are and are only a little way from the novice trail. All five of 
us present. 

"Sigh, nevermind." 

Haruhi has decided to not press any further. 

"Yuki, I will piggyback you, get up." 

"No need," says Nagato. 

"Oh yes!" Haruhi is determined. "I don't really know what has happened, nor do I know why it is 
that I have no clue about it, but you're really pushing yourself too hard. Although you're not 
running a fever anymore, anyone can see that you're not well. You need rest!" 

Without waiting for any feedback from Nagato, Haruhi has lifted her up and starts running 
towards Tsuruya-san and my sister. Her pacing would have left even the fastest snow blower in 
the dust. If there was ever such a category as a hundred-meter dash in the snow while 
piggybacking a person in the Winter Olympics, Haruhi would no doubt have taken the gold. 


Following that, 

Arakawa-san had us picked up after being notified by Tsuruya-san. 

Nagato was protesting somewhat about being treated as a patient by Haruhi, as she showed her 
vitality the Nagato way, but the look I gave her seemed to have an effect as she finally 
succumbed to Haruhi's instructions. 



Nagato, Haruhi, Asahina-san and my sister headed back to the villa first. Koizumi, Tsuruya-san 
and I took a walk to get back. 


In the middle of the walk, Tsuruya-san started off the conversation like so: 

"That's odd, why is it that you all were heading out of the mountain with heavy footsteps and 
with skis on your back? Did something happen?" 

Uhhh, no blizzard? 

"Hmm? Ahh, you must be talking about that snowfall which lasted for ten minutes? It's not all 
that much of a big deal. It's just a short, sudden snowfall." 

From the looks of it, us going in circles in the snow and spending an eternity in that strange 
house was but a few minutes to Tsuruya-san. 

Tsuruya-san went on, full of life in her pacing and tone: 

"I was wondering why y'all were coming down and falling all over the place. Lo and behold, it's 
because Nagato-chi took a nasty tumble. Thank goodness that she recovered from that so 
quickly." 

Koizumi can only give a stiff smile at that and says nothing. I didn't talk either. The observer that 
was calmly analyzing this whole situation, in this case Tsuruya-san, found us just as she said. If 
so, let's just use her point of view as the reference. We might have been through wonderland or a 
dream world, but this is reality, where the original version of the world is located. 

After walking in silence for quite a while, Tsuruya-san started to break into laughter once more, 
as she stuck her mouth next to my ear. 

"Kyon-kun, lemme ask you somethin'." 

What is it, sempai? 

"I can tell that Mikuru and Nagato-chi are no ordinary folks, probably Haruhi-nyan is also a cut 
above?" 

I examined Tsuruya-san with seriousness, and having found that her bright facade is just that, a 
plain bright outlook- 

"So even you have found that out." 

"I've reckoned that for quite a while! It's just that I haven't totally sorted out where the two of 
them've come from. But I'd say that they're doing some strange stuff behind our backs. Ahh, 
don't tell this to Mikuru. That kid keeps treatin' herself like she's an average Joe!" 



She was laughing from her stomach, which must have been because of how I had reacted to that. 


"Hmm, but Kyon-kun now is pretty normal. You reek of the same kinda smell that I've got." 
Following that, she started to look at my face. 

"Nevermind. I don't really wanna dig up dirt about what kinda person Mikuru is. You'd be 
having a hard time to answer. Who cares what she is, friends are friends." 

Haruhi, just stop with the honorary member or the honorary advisor thing and recruit Tsuruya- 
san as a regular member. This open-minded girl might be more suited than I for the role of being 
an understanding average person. 

Tsuruya-san patted my shoulder with ease. 

"Take care of Mikuru. If that kid has some things that she doesn't want me to help her with, 
you're gonna have to bear the brunt of that." 

That... is a definite yes. 

"Although..." 

Tsuruya-san's eyes were glimmering even brighter: 

"The movie that time, the one for the festival. Are the CGs' for real?" 

Koizumi might have had heard that, for I spotted him off to the side, shrugging his shoulders and 
having no comment. 


The moment we have arrived at the villa, Nagato is hurried off to bed by Haruhi. 

The stifled expression has disappeared from her pale face and is replaced by that calm 
complexion. She is back to being that person that wavers ever so slightly like the swaying grass 
in a gust of wind, back to being the Nagato that I know. 

As if they are all on vigil, both Asahina-san and Haruhi are sitting by Nagato's bedside while my 
sister and Shamisen are on standby off to a corner. Perhaps they are waiting for me, Koizumi and 
Tsuruya-san, who have come in later. When we are all present, Haruhi speaks out: 

"Hey Kyon. For some reason, I keep having thoughts that I had the most realistic dream. I 
dreamed that we arrived at a mansion, and took a bath in it as well as had some hot sandwiches 
there." 



You were just seeing things - just as I am about to say that, Haruhi continues. 


"Yuki said that she has no idea, but Mikuru-chan says that she recalls the exact same thing that 
I've said." 

I look toward Asahina-san, and the miss-maid that just evokes pity returns an 'I am sorry' look. 

This is not good. I was hoping to just gloss it over by calling all of it a daydream or some kind of 
illusion, and now I can't think of a good roundabout way to explain when the two have the exact 
same dream. 

As I ponder about how to lie to Haruhi, 

"It is collective hypnosis." 

Koizumi looks at me with a 'there there, leave it to me' expression and cuts in. 

"I actually recall similar things." 

"You're saying that you and I both got hypnotized?" Says Haruhi. 

"This is not a man-made hypnosis. Hypnosis for Suzumiya-san normally wouldn't have worked 
since you might have doubts if it was announced beforehand that you were to be hypnotized." 

"True." 

Haruhi falls into silence. 

"However, we had walked round and round in the snow mountain, with only a uniform white 
scenery. Are you aware of Highway Hypnosis? People that are driving on the highway can fall 
into a state of hypnosis by looking at the scene with the street lamps spaced out uniformly. This 
might be the phenomenon that has led to our situation. One falls asleep while taking the train due 
to the rhythmic vibrations in the cars. This is the same principle that applies to sending a baby to 
sleep by slow, rhythmic patting on its back." 

"Really?" 

Haruhi shows a 'first time that I've heard of this' look as Koizumi nods deeply. 

"Exactly." 

He continues on: 

"While we were moving in the snowstorm, I think that somebody had said: "It'd be great if 
there'd be a house that we can hide out at, and it'd be great if it's fully equipped, really 
comfortable..." or something similar to that. At any rate, the mental state of people in a disaster 



will not be very good and, under such extreme stress, it is not surprising that incredible 
apparitions might overtake us. In story books, don't travelers going through the desert often see 
mirages?" 

Damn Koizumi, that was beautiful! 

"Umm... maybe you're right. So that's basically what happened?" 

Haruhi cocks her head and looks at me. 

That's right. I keep nodding along, trying to force an expression of sudden realization. Koizumi 
pushes along with me: 

"The sound of Nagato-san falling must have awakened us to reality, it definitely must have been 
like that." 

"If you put it that way, I guess it really was like that..." 

Haruhi cocks her head further, but she quickly aligns it back to normal. 

"Fine, I'll call it that. It's absurd to think that there'd be such a house for us to shelter in when we 
got into trouble. My memory is getting kinda hazy on this. All of this is like a dream within a 
dream. " 

Right, a dream. That weird house is not really there so don't mind it too much, it's just a figment 
of our imagination from fatigue. 

The only thing that has me worried would be the two outsiders who are non-SOS members. I 
look at Tsuruya-san. 

"Umm!" 

Tsuruya-san blinks at me, all smiles. I read that as the code for "fine fine, let's leave it at that", 
although it might just be me getting worried too much. Tsuruya-san makes no comment and she 
doesn't say anything more, only has her own signature smile on her face. 

As for the other person — my little sister has already fallen asleep on Asahina-san's lap. 
Although she can be as loud as a meowing cat while awake, she is adorable when asleep. 
Asahina-san looks at my little sister as if she is satisfied. It is kind of obvious that Asahina-san 
and my little sister didn't catch even one word from the second part of Koizumi's explanation. 

Finally! After toiling for an eternity, the first night of the winter co-ed has arrived! 


Nagato seems to have trouble staying in bed, but is finally put down with a bedsheet by the 
screaming and jumping primate Haruhi. 



I think that there's no need to force Nagato to sleep. Even if you have a nice dream, it is still only 
a dream once you wake up. The important thing is that all of us are still together. No matter how 
exciting being on that glimmering stage might have been, if it is only an illusion that ceases to 
exist the moment you open your eyes, it has no meaning. I definitely have realized this deeply. 


I have decided to leave certain things aside for now. All of them can be confirmed later, be it the 
background story to that weird house in the snow mountain or to wonder if Haruhi totally bought 
Koizumi's dazzling jargon-laden speech. Of course it seems that none of it matters with her busy 
at taking care of Nagato right this moment. 

For some reason, I want to catch some air outside, which inadvertently means escaping from 
Haruhi's demonic voice reaching into my head. I don't feel cold for some reason while the stars, 
and the reflected starlight coming from the silvery landscape is unusually catching. 

"But," 

The next day would be the last day of the year. Koizumi's carefully planned detective drama will 
unfold itself on New Year's Eve. Haruhi will also do her best with her holiday bash. 

Screw this, things will work out in the end. I only need to worry about taking good care of 
myself before those things occur. This happens to be a rare opportunity for Nagato to get some 
R&R. Who cares when she usually sleeps or if she even needs to in the first place, she can really 
unwind herself and fulfill her urge to sleep this time around. Putting Shamisen onto her bed is 
quite a nice idea, as it's great to have an instant bed heater! 

I look at the endless snow field as I talk to myself. 

"Just for tonight, please don't let a blizzard start up again." 

If Nagato does dream when she sleeps, may she have a good dream... just for tonight, at least. 

At least I, personally, have no reason for wanting her to not have a good dream tonight. 

Lastly, I am also going to make a wish to the stars. Although it isn't Tanabata, nor is it New 
Year's Eve, and it is totally off-tangent to the story of Altair and Vega, but I would like at least 
one star to take my wish, given how many stars are out there in the universe. 

"May the coming year be a good year." 


Please make it come true, whoever is up in those stars. 



(Snow Mountain Syndrome End) 


Author's notes 

Author's Notes 


Endless EIGHT 

This volume in terms of how many sheets used for the draft would be about a hundred or so, out 
of those twenty of which are used for serialization in <The Sneakerx It is a rare chance for me to 
be able to return to the earlier writing style. Although I am still a bit shaky with my work 
aptitudes, I feel a bit more relieved emotionally. 


The Day of Sagittarius 

I should clarify even if it doesn't matter that I am not really that particular about the naming of 
the game as in the novel, given that if I would snicker if I can clear the level of a game in a year. 
By the way, the game that I have been playing lately and manage to get to the last level is 
Linda*3. It is a blast. I should really get myself a Dreamcast. 


Snow Mountain Syndrome 

This is my newest work of intermediate length, and the longest piece so far. I keep thinking as of 
late about where'd the text editor that would automatically word wrap around the entire page go. 

I purchased the following books as reference for this chapter. Here's a million and evermore 
thanks. 

Fermat's Enigma: The Epic Quest to Solve the World's Greatest Mathematical Problem. Singh, 
Simon, translated by Aoki Kaoru, Shinchosha. 

□ UUUUUUUU U (Fun With Shapes). Oono Eiiti, New release by Iwanami Shounan. 


By the way, should there be any mistake with the explanations as well as the use of formulae, 
blame them squarely on my lack of brain cells. There is no other reason, please bear with me. 


Lastly, allow me to extend my deepest condolences. 

On July 15, 2004, Yoshida Sunao sensei passed away. 

Looking back to how I was able to meet Yoshida-sensei around the day of the spring goodwill 
convention for Kadokawa, after being awarded the Sneaker prize. That was ten days after I was 
notified by phone. At the time I was just a newcomer without any clout whatsoever. The only 
things to do being on the ground of the goodwill convention with so many literary greats were to 
greet the seniors and to introduce oneself. 

Just as my tension was rising to its limit, an impeccable gentleman approached me. He revealed 
an easy smile, tapped my shoulder and said: 

"Hey, new guy!" 

That man would be Yoshida-sensei. 

"Hey, new guy!"- the phrase that Yoshida-sensei said to me cannot be more crisp and assuring. 

After that, Yoshida-sensei chatted briefed with me, whose brain was frozen and so stiff that I can 
only mutter "not at all" or "nonono" and so forth, then shows his smile again: 

"See you then." 

He leaves as such. That would be the first, and the last time that I would see Yoshida-sensei. 

After that I came down with the flu and was in my bed for three days before I came to, and I 
regretted for how I responded that day. Keeping that in mind, I wanted to greet him first the next 
time we meet and I even thought of the opener in advance. 

Unexpectedly, I missed the chance, only to never have the opportunity to have a real talk with 
Yoshida-sensei. However, I firmly believe that up there, Yoshida-sensei can definitely hear the 
calls from this corner of the Earth. 

Because I have been preparing and waiting to make this call for the longest time. 

"Hey senior!" 

I borrow this length of margin to pray for Yoshida-san's spirit. 



Tanigawa Nagaru 



Suzumiya Haruhi Volume Six: The Wavering 
of Suzumiya Haruhi 


Cover Page 



Inside Flap 









Prologue Flap 




Live A Live 


Live A Live 


This happened in my first year in high school. 

The year when the humanoid climatic anomaly known as Suzumiya Haruhi began her rampage, 
and also the most eventful year in my life. A year that gives me enough to fret about just by 
thinking back on all the troublesome events. When looking through my memory photo album, I 
found all sorts of jaw dropping things that had happened. One of these little events still makes a 
deep impression in the back of my mind, so allow me to share it with everyone. 


It was a time when the remnant summer heat refuses to leave the islands, making one suspect 
that someone had accidentally triggered a weather changing mechanism, since the calendar was 
already pointing to an autumn season. 

It was the day of the school festival. 

From declaring the making of the movie all the way to completing all the editing works, the ever 
insane director and executive producer had created a mess more confusing than any of the 
special effects added for the actors and crew involved. 

In the end, it was thanks to me that the movie can be sorted out properly. 

Today was the first day of the school festival, and also the premiere of the movie. I don't know 
whether this movie titled "The Adventures of Asahina Mikuru Episode 00" should be classified 
as a movie or a personal advertisement for Asahina-san. I suppose it's now being shown with 
great reviews. 

Why did I say "suppose"? That's because I no longer want to see my name associated with that 
crap movie that literally challenges the laws of physics. So after handing the tape to the Movie 
Study Group, I decided to take a stroll around and relax. 

Fortunately, when it comes to taking care of the small details and the diplomatic duty of 
promoting the movie, Haruhi becomes even more energetic as usual, ever leading the way as the 
commander. 


She probably doesn't give a damn about the teachers and students, who by now have gotten used 
to her antics, but she should at least give some consideration for the parents and people from out 
of school who would be visiting today, because right now she's wearing her bunny costume that 
was last worn earlier this spring! But thanks to this, Asahina-san, Nagato and Koizumi can now 
concentrate on preparing for their classes' festival activities, which weren't as boring as mine and 
Haruhi's class 1-5. 

So right now I feel like the storm has finally subsided, my mind as clear as the mirror surface of 
a calm lake. Once the digital editing of the movie was done, my work was complete. I shook my 
sleepy head and decided to take a look at Nagato's divinations, and maybe laugh at Koizumi's 
crap acting for his class theatre. It may be a generic school festival by a lowly prefectural high 
school, but it is a festival after all, so it's not a bad thing to go out and experience something you 
don't get to see every day. 

Besides, today I have a duty that I must attend to, and that duty is now being clutched in my hand 
as a piece of paper. 

Of course, that piece of paper is none other than a discount coupon for Asahina-san's class' 
noodle stall. 

No matter how cheap the tea leaves, once brewed by the hands of Asahina-san, would turn into a 
heavenly elixir. So I'm sure a dish of fried noodles made by the same pair of hands would rival 
the best a top-class Chinese restaurant has to offer. As I walked up the stairs, my expectation for 
how my stomach would grumble at the scent of it was constantly rising, while my footsteps were 
so light I felt like flying. 

As I began my ascent into heaven in excitement, someone doused a cold bucket of water over my 
head, 

"It could have been better if they had offered us a coupon where we can eat for free." 

The only person in this world who would complain so much was none other than Taniguchi. I 
only decided to invite him seeing how pitiful he was after falling into the pond when helping out 
as a movie extra, plus this was an opportunity of a lifetime. Otherwise I wouldn't even consider 
him at all. What more could he ask for? 

"I gave my all helping you guys out, and I'm still waiting for my pay! You should at least invited 
me to the movie premiere. Don't tell me you've cut out all my scenes. A 30% discount coupon 
just for nearly getting drowned is too cheap a reward!" 

Stop picking on the small details. Asahina-san has given us these coupons out of kindness so we 
could come to her class' noodle stall! Besides, the most underpaid actress was Asahina-san 
herself. I even wanted to call up the Selection Committee for the Academy Awards and persuade 
them to give her an Oscar. 


If you don't feel like coming, hurry up and get lost! 



Hearing me say that, the other person that came along decided to mediate, 


"Come on, Taniguchi, let's go together. Since you had just wanted to stroll around on your own. 
It's better sitting together than walking all alone." 

That was my classmate Kunikida, who unlike Taniguchi had the looks of a bright student. 

"Besides, since we're going with Kyon, we may even receive more offers. Like offering us more 
Kimchi, don't you always like Korean food, Taniguchi?" 

"Well, sort of." 

Taniguchi replied swiftly. 

"That would have to depend on how it tastes. Kyon, Asahina-san's not cooking, is she?" 

Hearing that question, I remembered Asahina-san telling me she was only in charge of serving 
food and drinks. So what about it? 

"Oh nothing, I was just thinking Asahina-san's probably crap at cooking. I wouldn't be surprised 
even if she put in sugar instead of salt for flavouring." 

It's not that I want to complain, but just what are you and Haruhi treating Asahina-san as? 
Though she may be good at being a mascot and a maid, in this day and age, you would only find 
people who mistake sugar for salt in a fantasy world. Asahina-san would only panic when losing 
her time -travelling device, though that fact alone was enough to make me wonder if she's really 
from the future. 

"I'm really looking forward to this," said Kunikida, "I hear their class is going to have a cosplay 
cafe. Asahina-san's waitress costume in the movie and the bunny girl costume the other day were 
all stunning, I wonder what she'll be wearing this time?" 

"I can't wait to see." 

Taniguchi agreed soundly. These two were unlike me, who had gotten used to seeing Asahina- 
san in her maid costume every day. I suddenly felt pity for them. 

Coming out from the stairs and into the corridor, I too began to visualize what I would see. 
Speaking of waitresses, all my dirty mind could think of was that tight uniform she wore in the 
movie, giving me a great urge to want to molest her. Though today she would be wearing an 
adorable elegant waitress uniform, gracefully serving food and drinks. With such scenery to 
cleanse the eyes and soul, what more could one ask for? I always thought Haruhi's preferred 
costumes were too complicated, after all, she was insane enough to stand at the school entrance 
dressing up as a bunny girl. These thick, steel-like nerves would probably suit a rough girl like 
her, but not everyone possesses nerves of steel. 



Asahina-san wearing the waitress costumes hand-made by her classmates 


Only on this matter was I able to agree enthusiastically with Taniguchi: I'm very much looking 
forward to this. Very. 


Today the school corridors were laid with green grass mats that were no different from those 
inexpensive red carpets. 

Normally students have to change into their indoor shoes when entering the school, but for the 
visitors' convenience, for today and tomorrow the school allowed people to enter wearing shoes 
for the duration of the school festival. All sorts of people appeared in the school as a result. This 
was especially true for those from the arts clubs, whose families have come to see their various 
performances. The school became a place for the local neighbourhood to kill time. There were 
also the students' old junior high classmates, who came to visit from their various high schools, 
especially those from the girls' school at the base of the hill. This became a once-in-a-year 
opportunity for the guys here to try their luck with them; certainly, that included Taniguchi. 

On the corridor where anything but a North High uniform would draw attention, the three of us 
were like sardines swimming towards a bait, and wandered along the corridor where the second 
year classrooms were, finally stopping before the classroom, which was between one that held 
mole-bashing games and one that provided balloons to visitors. 

The scent of burnt teriyaki travelled out from the entrance, which had a sign that read 
"NoodleAhs and Drinks Stall". The queue outside this classroom was longer than any other 
classroom. Before we came to this meandering queue, a voice shouted, 

"Ah! Kyon-kun, you came with your friends as well! Welcome! Come this way!" 

That was a crispy clear voice and beaming smile that I would recognize even from ten yards 
away. Besides the troublesome Haruhi, I know only one other person who could smile so 
happily. 

It was none other than Tsuruya-san, and here she was dressed up in her waitress costume. 

Standing by the tables outside on the corridors and waving at us, Tsuruya-san seems to be in 
charge of selling tickets, as well as attracting customers. 

"Well? What you think of this costume? It looks great, doesn't it?" 

Tsuruya-san moved with agility through the crowd and towards us. 


Of course it does. 



I adopted a low profile approach when looking at Tsuruya-san. 


I was so busy visualizing Asahina-san in her maid costume that I've forgotten that Tsuruya-san 
was in the same class as she was. Taniguchi and Kunikida had the look of a fisher that fished a 
flatfish, but found out that it comes along with a guppy biting its tail, and just looked astonished 
at this long-haired sempai. Couldn't really blame them, really. I don't know who designed this 
costume, but there must definitely be an expert fashion designer in their class. It was of a 
different style to the strange costumes Asahina-san was forced to wear for the movie. It wasn't 
too extravagant, nor was it too generic. It gave elegance to whoever wears it, yet not 
overshadowing any glamor from the wearer herself, bringing the charm of the wearer to the 
maximum. It could easily be the best fashion design of the year. 

Anyway, the costume was so good it can only be described in such abstract terms. If Tsuruya-san 
was already so stunning in this costume, I think I would probably be paralysed by the sight of 
Asahina-san wearing it. 

"Business sure is good." 

Hearing me say that, 

"Nya ha ha ha Come on in then!" 

Ignoring the glares from the other people, Tsuruya-san elegantly lifted her apron and said, 

"We used the cheapest ingredients to fry our noodles, and it tastes terrible. Yet we still get so 
many customers, we're making so much money that I can't stop smiling!" 

Tsuruya-san sure looked really happy. It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out why 
everyone queueing up for this noodle stall were all guys. Tsuruya-san's smiles carried a certain 
magic in them, even I was infected by her cheerfulness. After all, it's men that are more easily 
deceived. 

We stood at the end of the long queue, Tsuruya-san continued serving her smile for free, 

"Please pay first! We only have fried noodles and water! One plate costs 300 yen, while you can 
drink all the tap water for free ! " 

I gave her the discount coupons. 

"Hmm, three is it? Then that'll be 500 yen for the three of you. A great discount!" 

She stuffed the coins into her apron pocket, then gave us three fried noodle vouchers. 

"Alright then, please wait a moment! It'll be your turn soon!" 



Having said that, Tsuruya-san turned and returned to the table by the entrance. The coins in her 
apron pocket rang soundly as she disappeared within the queueing crowd. 

"She sure is energetic. How come she never gets tired?" 

Kunikida said looking impressed, while Taniguchi lowered his voice and said, 

"Kyon, I've been thinking about this for some time now. Who is that anyway? One of you and 
Suzumiya's accomplices?" 


"No — pe. 


tt 


Just like you guys, Tsuruya-san is not of our club. She's mainly used to make up the numbers 
whenever it was necessary, it's just that she always seems to appear at the right time. 


For Tsuruya-san, "a moment" probably meant a little over half an hour, because we had to wait 
for about thirty minutes before we finally arrived at the front of the queue and was let in the 
classroom. While we were waiting, the queues behind us never stopped growing, and they were 

all guys it was an unbelievable scene. Though we're not qualified to say anything about them 

since we were part of the queue as well. 

The classroom was divided into two halves, one as a makeshift kitchen and the other as a seating 
area. The frying pans made loud sizzling noises from the frying of the noodles. The cooks were 
girls wearing white Japanese-style aprons, chopping up the ingredients with their knives were 
also girls. This made me wonder, where did all the guys in this class go? And what were they 
doing? 

I later learnt from Tsuruya-san that all the poor guys were basically serving as slaves for the 
girls, either being sent out to buy any insufficient ingredients and utensils, or to get water and 
wash the dishes. I guess it couldn't be helped, the "Age of Aquarius" has truly arrived. Tsuruya- 
san brought us to our seats and said, 

"Here's your table. Three drinks for the customers here!" 

An adorable voice replied at the sempai's calling, 

"Coming — . Ah, welcome." 

Even if I didn't mention, I'm sure most of you must have guessed who it was coming over, 
carrying a tray with cups of water on it. 


After handing out our drinks, she carried the tray with her arms and bowed politely to us, 



Welcome! Thank you for coming to our little food stall! 


She smiled gently at us, 

"Hi, Kyon-kun, and your friends um, you were the movie extras " 

The two people besides me said at the same time, 

"I’m Taniguchi!" 

"I'm Kunikida." 

"Hee hee, I'm Asahina Mikuru." 

There hanging on the classroom wall was a poster that read "No photos!" That move was 
understandable, since if photos were allowed, the room would fall into chaos, and not a lot of 
business would be made. 

It's natural for the adorable Asahina-san to be able to charm the whole school. As expected, my 
consciousness flew into the air at the sight of her costume, there was no need for any words to 
further describe her cuteness. Asahina-san and Tsuruya-san were just so beautiful standing 
together that I wanted to award them with a best waitress costume design award. I guess heaven 
would be some place full with sceneries like that. 

Asahina-san put the tray under her arm and tore the noodle coupons into two halves, returning 
one half to us, she said, 

"Please wait a moment." 

Under the watchful eyes of all the guys, she ran quickly to the makeshift kitchen. Tsuruya-san 
smiled and explained, 

"Mikuru is only in charge of receiving vouchers, collecting dishes and serving water. That's all 
she does ! What would we do if she accidentally trips over and burns herself with sizzling hot 
noodles? This is why we need to give our cover girl the best protection possible!" 

You're absolutely right, Tsuruya-san. 


Serving us with our noodles was another second year waitress. The price of having more Kimchi 
was that we now have less meat, the noodles were normal at best, all we could taste was the 
sauce, it wasn't really that great. Like a humming bird, Asahina-san now jumped from table to 
table serving water for the new customers and receiving vouchers. She would occasionally come 



and pour some cold water for us, which wasn't really that cold. That was the best she could do. 
Tsuruya-san was also busy coming in and out of the entrance receiving customers. It just didn't 
feel good for us to sit too long. 

It took only five minutes for us to finish our noodles, and besides leaving quickly, there was 
nothing else we could do. Yet we were not quite full. 

"Now what should we do?" 

Kunikida asked, 

"I want to go see the movie Kyon made, just to make sure I'm in it. What about you, Taniguchi?" 
"I'm not going to waste my time watching such a movie!" 

Taniguchi refused stubbornly and took out an itinerary flyer for the school festival from his 
pocket. 

"There wasn't that much to eat at that noodle stall, I'm going to the Science Club's barbecue 
party! But before that " 

He gave an evil grin, 

"I must make good use of this great opportunity, I'm going to go hook up with some girls! All 
my targets today are girls in casual wear. If you look carefully you would find three girls walking 
happily together. Surprisingly, if you flirt with those, half of them would actually agree to go out 
with you. These all came from my past experience of flirting with girls." 

To hell with your flirting experiences, so far your success rate has been close to zero, what use 
can I have with such experiences? 

I quickly shook my head, 

"I'm not going. You two can go ahead." 

"Ah." 

Taniguchi gave a cold smile, while Kunikida nodded his head as though understanding 
something. Now that pissed me off, yet I could not find a way to argue back. It's not that I'm 

afraid I would bump into someone when flirting with other girls, it's just that I just think it's 

better to be safe. 

"It's OK, Kyon. We understand you're that sort of person. There's no need to explain. We're 
friends after all, right?" 


Taniguchi pretended to make a sigh, Kunikida quickly came and mediated, 



"Say, Taniguchi, I don't think I'll be flirting with girls as well today. Sorry about that. If you do 
happen to hook up with one, would you mind introducing her friend to me? We're friends after 
all, right?" 

After mimicking Taniguchi's pattern of speech, Kunikida then said, 

"Well, see you guys later." 

And he left cooly. I decided to follow Kunikida and leave Taniguchi standing alone with his eyes 
wide open like an idiot, 

"Well, see ya later, Taniguchi. I'll ask you what your success rate is later this evening, if you're 
successful, that is." 


Hmm where should I go next? 

If I go back to the classroom, I'll probably bump into Haruhi all alone inside. If I walked around 
the school with that girl, something's bound to happen that'll damage my reputation greatly. Once 
I thought of that, my feet automatically went the opposite direction. I was thinking that if she had 
kept on handing out flyers at the school entrance dressed in her bunny girl suit, someone should 
have stopped her by now, and she would be sulking all alone in the classroom. Please, just for 
today, allow me to have some free time to myself. Tomorrow my mom and sister would be 
coming to visit, I don't want them getting caught up with Haruhi's antics. 

I once again examined the festival itinerary, there weren't many interesting activities around. I 
wasn't interested in learning the results for the school's questionnaire reports or the research on 
the distribution of local and foreign species of bauhinias. Each grade seems to have made more 
than two or more movies, I have no intention of watching any one of them. Neither was I 
interested in study groups discussing what they've learned so far at school, or maze houses made 
out of aluminium foil. Was recruiting members from other schools to form a handball club really 
a good idea? Only our homeroom teacher Okabe was enthusiastic about it. 

"That leaves us with " 

My eyes stopped on the biggest event held during the school festival, the only people practising 
day and night for this event would only be those guys - 1 suddenly thought of the annoying 
trumpet noise that could be heard every night for the past few weeks. 


The concert by the Trumpet Orchestra. 



I took up the itinerary and reconfirmed again, unfortunately, they won't be playing till tomorrow. 
There sure were a lot of clubs booking the assembly hall. The Theatre Club and Choir would also 
perform tomorrow, then what's on today 

"Live concerts by the Pop Music Society and bands that have registered." 

Now that's quite common. Though most of the bands would play the most popular songs of the 
day by various pop singers, it's not too bad to listen to some live music once in a while. The 
passion and effort these bands put into their performance far exceeds what I put into the making 
of the movie by a hundred times. I might as well go compare the results. I could go listen to their 
music and relax while I daydream, and during this time, I could put this indie movie I personally 
made at the back of my mind. 

"It's necessary to spend some time alone as well." 

As a result, I had no idea my plan to relax and listen to some music was about to be shattered 
completely by surprise. 

I was too naive, always believing everything in this world has a limit. I keep on forgetting that 
these limits are there to be ignored and broken eventually by someone. It was because of this that 
I fell into an infinite whirlpool of chaos that is literally beyond the scope of anyone's 
comprehension. It was after experiencing one strange event after another that I realized how 
shallow I was. I must make this a lesson for my descendants to learn from, as for whether my 
descendants would even pay attention to such a rule, that's not for me to worry about now. 


The assembly entrance was wide open, a loud noise boomed from the inside, it was so loud it's as 
though even the gods were having a concert as well. While this soul rock concert was a bit low in 
terms of quality, but as long as you pour your heart into it, it doesn't matter much on how good 
or bad you are, it's just like not adding any flavouring to your Miso soup wouldn't affect it too 
much. Though it'll taste much better if flavourings were added, but the main dish is the Miso 
soup itself, not the flavouring. If only flavourings were served, then it won't do the Miso soup 
any justice. 

I looked around the hall, the place looked really small. The steel chairs were only about sixty 
percent full, the hall was about eighty percent full at the beginning of the concert. The amateur 
bands on the stage played a number of familiar pop songs, though it's still going to be some time 
before they make it big, the Broadcast Club's remixing skills were partly responsible for their 
performance as well. 


As all the lights were focused on the stage, the surrounding areas became dark. I found a row full 
of empty seats and sat by the side. 



According to the itinerary, this concert is divided into two parts, one by the Pop Music Society, 
and the rest by other amateur bands who have registered to perform. Right now it's the students 
from the Pop Music Society performing. There was a standing area in front of the first row of 
steel chairs, where some people danced to the rhythm. Based on my deductions, these people are 
either the performers' families or are being paid to dance around. At any rate, the amplifiers here 
were just too loud for an audience who wants to daydream. 

A while after I placed my hand behind my head, as the last tune was being played, the lead 
singer begun to introduce his entourage while following the rhythms. I found out that they were 
the Friendly Five, a second year band from the Pop Music Society. I'll probably forget this 
information in about three days time. 

I don't know music that much to be able to appreciate what it means, and I have no interest in 
further understanding who the performers are. This was the best occasion to kill time. 

I began to relax my nerves. 

As a result, when the Friendly Five exited the stage on one side waving their hands at the 
sporadic applause from the audience, followed by another band entering the stage from the other 
end 

I started to rub my eyes. 

"Wha!?" 

The mood in the hall quickly changed. Everyone's mental state slid ten metres down, and the 
sound effect of them murmuring was now knocking in my head. 



£3 


The bunny ears on her head swung forward and back and she stood on the stage. Even if her eyes were 
replaced by someone else's, I would still recognize who she is. 


What on earth does that girl think she's doing? 



I was already amazed at seeing her carrying a notestand and microphone onto the stage, yet she 
has to stand in the limelight with that familiar face and figure, wearing that familiar bunny girl 
costume. 

The bunny ears on her head swung forward and back and she stood on the stage. Even if her eyes 
were replaced by someone else's, I would still recognize who she is. 

Suzumiya Haruhi. 

For some reason, Haruhi stood in the center of the stage with a very serious expression. 

But, it would have been fine if it was just her alone. 

"Ah!?" 

That was the sound I made when all the air in my lungs left me at once after noticing the second 
person who came on a second later. 

Sometimes an evil alien magician, sometimes a dark-cloaked fortune teller carrying a crystal 
ball. 


Speechless, I truly was speechless. 

Wearing her black hat and cloak which I was used to seeing these past few weeks, Nagato Yuki 
walked onto the stage carrying an electric guitar, with the strap over her shoulder. Just what were 
they up to? 

If Asahina-san and Koizumi had followed, I would've breathed a sigh of relief. Yet the third and 
fourth person were both girls that I've never seen before. Their modest uniform look gave an aura 
of dignity about them, I guess they must be sempais from the third year. One was carrying a bass 
guitar, while the other carried a set of drums onto the stage. There doesn't seem to be any other 
band members. 

Why? The sight of Haruhi and Nagato in her school festival outfit made me want to close my 
eyes. Why were those two in a Pop Music Society band? And why was Haruhi standing in the 
most prominent position, carrying a microphone? 

As my mind was trying to ponder these questions, the mysterious four-person band looked ready 
to go. The audience continued their murmuring, while I remained speechless and continued to 
stare at them. The bassist and drummer nervously started testing out their instruments, Nagato's 
face was calm as usual, placing her fingers on the guitar strings and standing by. 



Next Haruhi put what looked like sheet music onto the notestand and looked around the hall. The 
seating area was very dark, so I don't think she saw me then. Haruhi tapped the microphone to 
make sure it was on, then turned to say something to the drummer. 

Without any introduction, notification, or even a word from the host, the band began playing as 
soon as the drummer started the rhythm. Just listening to that prelude alone was enough to make 
me fall from my seat. Nagato's guitar skills had reached the levels of the likes of Mark Knopfler 
and Brian May. And they were playing a song I've never heard before. What's this? 

What on earth is this? Just as I was thinking, as if trying to hit me further, Haruhi began 

singing. 

It was a very clear voice, so crisp it could travel all the way to the Moon. 

It's just that she was reading the sheet music as she sang along. 


For the whole duration of the first song, I never managed to recover from my stunned state. I was 
probably like one of those RPG monsters being cast with the "Silence" spell. 

Haruhi didn't make any body movements, she just stood there and concentrated on singing. I 
suppose it wasn't easy trying to dance as you read and sing along the notes. 

I was still in shock when the first song finished. Normally, it was an occasion for a standing 
ovation and widespread applause, but right now the audience was as petrified as I was. 

Now what? I was already astonished at Haruhi coming up to perform, but I was even more 
amazed at Nagato's superb skills on the electric guitar. I'm sure the other members from the Pop 
Music Club had the same questions as I did. As for the other visitors from out of school, they 
were probably thinking, "Why is the lead singer dressed in a bunny girl suit?" 

The hall was as silent as a trench that just suffered a carpet aerial bombing. 

We were as silent as sailors who were ensnared by the sound of Siren's singing. When I looked 
carefully, I noticed the girls playing the bass and drums were also looking at Haruhi and Nagato 
with the same expression. It wasn't just the audience that was stunned. 


Haruhi looked ahead and waited for something, then she knitted her brows and turned around. 
The drummer frantically began hitting her drums and started playing the second song. 



Putting aside the amazement of the audience, the mysterious band was already playing their third 
song. 

Perhaps I'm getting used to it, as my ears begun to appreciate the rhythm and lyrics of the song. 
This was a fast paced R&B song, this is the first time I've heard it, yet it sounded very pleasant. I 
thought it was a very good song. Maybe it's due to the amazing skills of the guitarist, as well as 

Haruhi's impeccable voice Hmm, how should I say this? Though I was used to hearing her 

scream and shout, I must admit that she's a very good singer. 

The audience also began to recover from their petrified state and turned their attention towards 
the stage. 

I casually turned around and noticed that the number of audience has increased. And I spotted 
someone I knew as well, who walked towards me, wearing a Danish knight costume. 

"Hi there." 

Maybe he was afraid his voice would be buried within the loud speakers, he said this into my ear, 
"May I please ask what's going on here?" 

It was none other than Koizumi. 

How the hell should I know? I shouted back, and stared at Koizumi's strange costume. How 
come you're walking around the school in your school festival costume as well? 

"It's too bothersome getting changed all the time, so I decided to just come out wearing this." 

And why did you come here? 

Koizumi looked gently at the stage where Haruhi was singing, then flicked his hair, 

"I heard some rumours." 

So it's become a rumour now? 

"Yes. To go up the stage and perform in such an outfit, the news is bound to spread. You can't 
keep a person's mouth shut forever." 

The proudest troublemaker of North High, Suzumiya Haruhi, is up to something again I've 

heard this sort of news spreading around the school many times already. I don't really mind if 
that girl added a new case to her X-File folder, but it just wouldn't be reasonable if my name and 
the SOS Brigade were involved as well. 


Suzumiya-san sure is amazing, so is Nagato-san. 



Koizumi smiled and closed his eyes as if to enjoy the music. I once again turned towards the 
stage and observed Haruhi, trying to make out what she was really up to. 


Both me and Koizumi had the same opinions about their singing and performance, besides the 
strange fact that the lead singer had to sing reading from her sheet music from the notestand. 

Yet for some reason, I felt moved by something. What was this trembling in my heart about? 


As if to change the pace of the performance to make the show more diversified, the next song 
was a slow melancholic tune. As the fourth song approached its end, I became deeply impressed 
with its rhythm and lyrics. I haven't heard such a moving tune for a long time now. I wasn't alone 
in thinking like that, the audience around me were also immersed in their enjoyment, there wasn't 
even a sound of anyone clearing their throats. Once the fourth song was over, the hall fell into 
silence once again. 

Finally facing the now fully-seated hall, Haruhi spoke her first sentence, 

"Um Hello everybody." 

Haruhi said with a stiff expression 

"I think it's time I introduced the members of the band. Actually, I and " 

She pointed to Nagato. 

"Yuki and I aren't members of this band. We're only stand-ins. The original lead singer and main 
guitarist was absent due to some unforseen events. Oh, and the lead singer is the main guitarist as 
well. So there are only three members in this band." 

The audience listened intently. 

Haruhi walked around from the notestand and towards the bassist, handing the microphone to 
her. The girl then looked frantically at Haruhi and asked Haruhi quietly, "Yes?" Before finally 
introducing herself emotionally. 

Haruhi then walked towards the drums and allowed the drummer to introduce herself as well, 
then quickly returned to the center of the stage. 

"These two and the absent leader are the real band members. That's all, and I'm sorry. I wasn't 
sure if I could perform well as a stand-in, but as there was only an hour left before the show 
started, I just had to give it a try." 



Haruhi shook her head, her bunny ears shook along as well. 


"So, if anyone wanted to listen to the real thing being performed by the lead singer and main 
guitarist, please come and register later. Oh, and we would provide a free copy to anyone who's 
brought an audio recorder or MD player with them, right?" 

The bassist stiffly nodded her head at Haruhi' s question. 

"Right, then it's decided." 

Haruhi showed her first smile since coming onto stage, so that girl can get nervous sometimes as 
well. As if finally free from her shackles, she now revealed a bright smile that's usually seen in 
the club room - well, not as bright as usual, but the brightness of the smile was at least 50 Watts. 

Haruhi turned and smiled at Nagato, who remained expressionless, then screamed towards the 
microphone at the top of her voice, 

"And now, the final song!" 


It was later on that I found out from Haruhi herself. 

"After I was done giving out the flyers at the school entrance, and on my way back towards the 
classroom " 

Haruhi said, 

"I found someone arguing by the shoe lockers. Yes, it was the members of that band arguing 
with the people from the Student Council's School Festival Executive Committee. I felt a bit 
curious, so I decided hear what they were fighting about." 

Wearing your bunny girl costume? 

"What I was wearing then isn't important. After hearing what was being argued, I found out that 
the Executive Committee wasn't allowing the band to perform." 

They didn't have to make a ruckus by the shoe lockers of all places. 

"That was because of the band the three sempais from the Pop Music Society formed, their 
leader, who was the lead singer and main guitarist, suddenly fell into a fever. I hear she's 
suffering from tonsillitis, she could hardly speak, and she looked exhausted as she struggled to 
stand." 



She sure was unlucky. 


"Exactly. Not to mention she accidentally tripped and twisted her right wrist at home. It was 
impossible for her to perform." 

If it was impossible, why did she come to school then? 

"Um, she cried and begged to be allowed on the stage. But she looked as though she would faint 
if she didn't receive any medical treatment soon, so the Executive Committee people carried 

her like this, and dragged her away as though carrying a little green man. Both sides pulled 

and pushed, and eventually came to the shoe lockers." 

But, how was that lead singer and guitarist going to perform when she was sick and injured at the 
same time? 

"By sheer determination." 

I actually believe only you could do that if it was just you. 

"They worked so hard for this day! It wasn't much if your own efforts went down the drain, but 
you can't just throw away the efforts of your companions as well. I really hate seeing such 
situations." 

You sounded as though you've worked hard yourself. 

"And the songs as well. They weren't going to play some half-assed pop song, but an original 
song with the tune composed and lyrics written all by themselves ! Of course they wanted to 
perform at all costs. If the song could speak, it would probably shout, 'Play me! Play me now!"' 

So you decided to roll up your sleeves and help them out? 

"My costume didn't have any sleeves then. The guys from the School Festival Executive 
Committee in this school are all imbecile yes-men appointed by the teachers, there's no way one 

can listen to whatever they say. But though I may be at loggerheads with the Student Council, 

when I saw the band leader looking so terrible, even I thought she couldn't make it. And so I 
said, 'Why not let me take over for you?"' 

And that leader, bassist and and drummer actually agreed? 

"If it was just the singing, it wasn't too hard. The sick band leader stared at me for a while, then 
said, 'Alright. If it's you, then you can do it.' She then gave me a gentle smile while looking very 
tired." 

Everybody in North High now knows who Haruhi is and what she looks like. They probably 
have guessed what sort of girl she is as well. 



"I didn't think much, after I pushed her into the teacher's car as she was driven off to the 
ambulance, I then concentrated on memorizing the tunes and lyrics from listening to the demo 
tapes and reading the sheet music, since we only had one hour left." 

Then, what about Nagato? 

"Um, it's not that much of a problem for me to play the guitar as well, but we already had no time 
as I was already busy memorizing the rhythms. So I decided to ask Yuki to help out on the guitar 
part. Do you know? That girl's good at everything!" 

Of course I know that, better than you in fact. 

"When I found her, she was busy telling the fortunes of her customers. When I explained 
everything to her, she agreed to help right away. I'm so amazed that she can memorize the notes 
instantly after reading it just once, and then play them all out so accurately. I wonder where Yuki 
learnt her guitar skills from." 

She probably only started learning the moment you came asking her to help out. 


On the following Monday, two days after that incident. 

It was on the first Monday after the school festival, during the recess before the fourth session. 

Haruhi sat behind me, happily writing something on her notebook. I don't want to know what it 
was, but I could pretty much guess the details. Haruhi was pleased that the SOS Brigade's first 
indie movie did surprisingly well, and already she was busy conceptualizing on its sequel. Just 
thinking of how to banish these thoughts from Haruhi's mind was already tiring enough for me. 

"Someone's here!" 

Kunikida said after returning from the bathroom, 

"They're looking for Suzumiya-san." 

Haruhi lifted her head, Kunikida then pointed towards the door. Finishing his role as the 
messenger, he hurriedly returned to his seat. 

Outside the open sliding doors stood three solemn looking girls. One of them wore a sling over 

one of her shoulders. I remembered seeing the other two they were the band members from 

last time. 


Haruhi. 



I pointed to the door with my chin. 


"They seem to be looking for you." 

"Um." 

Surprisingly, Haruhi looked hesitant. She slowly stood up, but had no intention of moving. In the 
end she even said, 

"Kyon, come with me." 

Why should I have to go with you? I never had a chance to argue, as Haruhi pulled me by my 
collar with her incredible strength towards the classroom door. The three sempais instantly 
giggled at the sight of this. 

Haruhi then forcefully had me stand beside her. 

"Has your tonsillitis got any better?" 

She said to the third year girl that I only met for the first time. 

"Yes, it's much better now." 

She gently caressed her throat and said in a weak voice, 

"We're forever indebted to you, Suzumiya-san." 

She then bowed deeply to Haruhi. Her band members did the same as well. 


I later found out from them that the whole school (especially the girls) have rushed to the Pop 
Music Society and requested copies of the original demo recordings. Right now they're visiting 
every class distributing the MD copies. 

"There were so many orders that it's amazing." 

When I heard how many orders were made, I was amazed as well. Because people weren't 
ordering the version which Haruhi and Nagato stood-in, but the original version instead. It was 
an unexpected ripple effect. 

"This is really all thanks to you." 

The three of them all gave the same graceful smile to their helpful lower classman. 



"As a result of that, all our hard work didn't go to waste. We're so grateful of your help. 
Suzumiya-san, you truly are amazing. This year's school festival was our last chance of 
performing for the Pop Music Society, I would have performed myself if it were possible, but it 
was better to find a stand-in than to give up completely. We are simply eternally grateful for your 
generosity." 

It was embarassing enough to be thanked so sincerely by three sempais, even though I wasn't the 
one being thanked. Why should I stand with Haruhi and be embarassed together with her? 

"We'd like to offer you a gift as a token of our gratitude." 

When the band leader said that, Haruhi quickly shook her hands. 

"There's no need for that, no, really. I had a fun time singing, the songs were really pleasant. It's 
like having a karaoke but with free live band playing for you instead. So I'll feel bad if I accept 
any gifts from you." 

I felt Haruhi sounded strange. As though she had prepared this speech beforehand. Although 
talking to her sempais so casually sure suited her image well. 

"There's no need to be too concerned about it. If you want to thank someone, go thank Yuki. She 
was the one that I had to turn to for help." 

The three of them all said they've already gone to Nagato-san's class to thank her. 

After expressing their gratitude, Nagato simply nodded without changing her expression and 
then silently pointed towards Haruhi's classroom. That wasn't too hard to visualize. 

"Well then " 

The leader sempai finally said, 

"We plan to hold another concert just before our graduation, so feel free to come along, and " 

She looked at me carefully. 

"Don't forget to bring your friend along." 


But, how was it that their original recorded version became so popular in demand? 



The answer was later solved by someone. It's only during this time that this chatterbox would 
come to explain in detail the answer to this minor mystery. Sometimes this esper-boy can be 
useful as well. 

"Have you noticed any difference between Suzumiya-san's voice with the rest of the rhythm 
sections? Or to be more precise, the difference between the rhythm sections of Suzumiya-san's 
melody, Nagato-san's guitar riff and that of the bass and drums." 

Koizumi continued, 

"The difference was so small it was near impossible to notice. Their jamming was so perfect no 
one would have thought they were a temporary band. Suzumiya-san sure has an amazing sense 
of rhythm, she only needed to listen to the original tape three times before going on to perform." 

Nagato too was pretty amazing, with her guitar skills reaching professional levels. But for our 
ever reliable goddess Nagato, that sort of trick was easy for her. 

"However, that sort of singing wasn't exactly perfect. After all, those were all original composed 
songs. The musical foundation over the songs of the band members, who had practiced day and 
night over their own created songs, and that of Haruhi, who only came on after listening to the 
tape three times, were drastically different." 

That was pretty obvious. 

"Exactly. In other words, no matter how hard the bassist and drummer try to match up with the 
singing of Suzumiya-san, who had hastily memorized the rhythms and made her own 
interpretations, and the guitar riffs of Nagato-san, who would be trying to follow the singing 
rhythms, there would still be some discrepancies between their various rhythm sections. The 
audience would feel some sort of disharmony within the song, yet they don't know where the 
disharmony comes from, since that was based on a subconscious feeling." 

He's always like that, explaining things as though they really mean something. Must you explain 
everything from a psychological point of view? 

"This is based on my analysis, you'll understand once I finish my explanation. As the second 
song and third song followed, that disharmonious feeling within the audience grew larger and 

larger without them realizing it, until the final song was played Think about it, what did 

Suzumiya-san do before performing the last song?" 

She explained to the audience that the lead singer as well as main guitarist was absent, and she 
had to stand-in together with Nagato. She then stuffed the microphone to the band members for 
them to introduce themselves. That was it. 

"And that was enough. The mystery was answered, and the doubts of the audience were all 

cleared at once. 'Ah~. So that's why we had that strange feeling of disharmony.' and all their 

questions were answered." 



Since you say that, I guess I have to agree. Yet I still wasn't convinced. 


"Suzuiniya-san's singing and Nagato-san's guitar skills were far above the levels a high school 
Pop Music Society could reach. The audience would probably think, 'If the stand-in artists was 
already this great, then wouldn't the original members be superb?"' 

So that's why many people requested MD copied of their original recordings? 

"Suzumiya-san's singing is so good that it's close to perfection. Yet her near perfect performance 
has created something good out of it, Suzumiya-san sure is incredible." 

Maybe. For those three third-year band members, Haruhi was like a saviour. 

But what was she to us? 

"To us? What do you mean?" 

I mean what was Haruhi to the members of the SOS Brigade, the constant victims of Haruhi's 
ideas! Don't tell me you expect her to create "something good" from her ideas. 

"Then I wouldn't know the answer. These things are best left till the end to find out. Yes, if till 
the very end, we still feel it wasn't a bad thing to have met her, then it's probably a blessing." 


The three third- year sempais left just as the bell for the end of the fourth session began to ring. 

Haruhi returned to her seat with an expression that was complex and hard to describe. She spent 
the whole fourth session daydreaming and carrying the same expression. When lunch break 
came, she disappeared at once. 

I spent the lunch break sitting with Kunikida and listening to Taniguchi making his excuses, "It's 
true. There were no hot girls at all during the school festival, I think this has to do with our 
school's geographic position. As the school is situated on a hill, the romantic path becomes an 
uphill struggle as well." I think I let that babble enter my left ear and out of my right, as I was too 
busy eating. I finished my boxed lunch in no time and got off my seat. 

For no reason at all, I suddenly felt like having a walk after lunch. 

After walking aimlessly for a while, for some reason my legs automatically turned to the central 
courtyard, and towards the patchy grass fields just beside the corridor leading to the club room 
building, and it was there I saw Haruhi lying on the grassy knoll. 



Placing her hand behind her back as a pillow, she seemed concentrated on the movement of the 
clouds above. 


"Yo." 
I said, 



I decided to follow suit and silently look at the sky. 

"What's with you? You've had that face since the last recess." 

"What now?" 

Haruhi gave me an incomprehensible reply, and continued looking at the clouds. I decided to 
follow suit and silently looked at the sky. 

I don't know how long we kept silent for. I don't suppose it was more than three minutes, but I 
don't have much confidence with my internal clock anyway. 

At the end of this meaningless silent marathon, Haruhi finally spoke. She sounded very stiff, as if 
struggling to find a topic to talk about. 

"Um I just can't remain calm, I wonder why?" 

Hearing Haruhi's tone I could tell she was troubled, I half-smiled, 

"How should I know?" 

It's because you're not used to being thanked by other people, and especially to being thanked 
personally by someone you've never met before. And you never have done anything others 
would say "thank-you" for face-to-face. You're probably wondering whether you were being 
intrusive when you decided to help them. After all, if it had been you, even if your vocal cords 



and arms were broken, you would probably had dragged yourself onto the stage with your sheer 
determination, no matter how people tried to talk you out of it. Never once would you have 
thought of getting anyone to help. 

In the end, you not only saved the day, but you managed to raise the popularity of the sempais' 
band, all thanks to your effort in standing up against the Executive Committee. Their gratitude 
was genuine and came from the bottom of their hearts. So the decision you made was probably 
the second best, if not the best, choice. How does it feel, Haruhi? Now you know the importance 
of helping people in need. Why don't you make an oath to help others for the rest of your life? 

I never said any of the above to Haruhi, only keeping it in my mind. Since all I was doing 

was standing besides Haruhi and looking at the sky. Since the school festival ended, the autumn 
season really kicked into gear, and the mountain breeze began chasing away the thin clouds. 

Haruhi remained silent as well. Her scowling face was probably deliberate just to spite me. She 
must be having another expression inside her mind. 

"Well?" 

Laying flat on the grass, Haruhi turned her sharp gaze towards me, 

"You have something to say? Hurry up and say it! Though it's probably some unimportant 
nonsense, but you'll go crazy eventually if you keep things to yourself for too long." 

"No, nothing really." I said. 

Haruhi sat up and clutched the grass on the knoll with her hands, she gathered them up and threw 
them towards me. But it seemed even the weather gods were on my side, as a wind suddenly 
came and blew the green grass straight into Haruhi's face. 

"Damn it!" 

After spitting out all the grass that flew into her mouth, she lay flat again. 

I lifted my head and looked towards the club building, I could see the Literature Club's window. 

I thought I would see a slim short haired figure looking down at us, but in the end I could see 
nothing. It was normal for me not to see anything anyway. 

After another moment's of silence, a voice began to talk to herself, 

"It didn't feel bad at all singing live. Though for a moment I was concerned with how well I 
could sing but it was fun. How should I say this? I felt very immersed with it." 

If dressing up in a bunny girl costume and singing from the notes as a stand-in singer makes you 
happy, then it means you have an unlimited amount of enthusiasm, though I knew that for a long 
time already. 



"And it was because it was so much fun that the injured sempai had to argue with the Executive 
Committee to allow her on the stage." 


"Yeah." 

Hearing this heart-felt confession, I felt moved somehow. This girl never fails to amaze me. 
"Hey!" 

Remaining solemn all the time until now, Haruhi suddenly leaped forward and stood near my 
face. I instinctively backed off, but mistimed my step. And right now this ever moody drama 
queen now showed a deluxe smile and raised her voice, 

"Kyon, what instrument can you play?" 

A particularly ominous feeling swiftly crept into my consciousness, I quickly shook my head. 

"I don't know any." 

"Let's form a band for the school festival next year. Even if we don't join the Pop Music Society, 
we can still go on stage to perform after passing the audition. We'll get through with ease. I'll do 
the singing, Yuki's the guitarist, while Mikuru-chan can shake the tambourine and make the 
stage lively. Good idea, huh?" 

No, it's not a good idea! 

"Of course, we must work on the sequel to the movie as well. Yup! We'll be quite busy next 
year. We ought to have more goals for the new year than previous years!" 

Now just wait a moment. 

"Let's go, Kyon." 

Wait, hold it. Where're we going? And what're we doing? 

"To get some instruments! We'll probably find something good if we go to the Pop Music 
Society's place, besides I want to ask that third-year band tips on how to compose a song. Good 
things ought to be done quickly!" 

It may be a good thing for you, but not for me! But Haruhi ignored my doubts and grabbed my 
hand, she then began to drag me along 

In very large strides. 

"Don't you worry, I'll take care of the music and lyrics. Of course, I'll be in charge of the editing 
and dance choreography as well!" 



Sigh. The secret switch that only exists in Haruhi's has been switched on and was generating 
strange ideas once again. Even if I was abducted by aliens, I still wouldn't be dragged so strongly 
as this. I looked up again for someone who could save me. 

There was still no sign of anyone by the club room window. The guitar maestro and alien 
magician was probably deeply immersed in her world of books right now, since autumn was the 
season for reading, after all. 

"Can't you walk with your own legs? C'mon, let's leap through every three steps and we'll climb 
the stairs in no time ! " 

Haruhi turned, her eyes glittering with all sorts of entertaining stuff, she hastened her footsteps 
and soon began running. 

I had no choice but to run along as well. 

Why you ask? 

Because it was still some time before Haruhi could let go of my hand. 

(Live A Live End) 


Asahina Mikuru's Adventure Episode 00 

And so, my first school festival in high school has ended frantically together with the seasonal 
change, yet the lively atmosphere of the festival still echoed inside Haruhi's mind, and behind 
that echo were all sorts of promotional posters that read, "Book your pre-order tickets now", 

"This movie will rock Hollywood (very soon)", "One year to conceive, and (less than) one month 
to complete shooting". 

Anyway, she was already in the process of making the second movie, scheduled to be shown at 
the next school festival. There's a limit for impatience, you know. 

She should consider my feelings as well. I just barely managed to carry all those heavy 
equipment to their destination, and was about to finally go home and get some rest, and yet there 
were even more goods for me to carry. Right now I feel like escorting a female protagonist home 
on a path full of predators, always having to worry when a Bengal tiger would strike at us. This 
is all thanks to the movie which was shown not long ago, as it was simply too overwhelming. 

As for how overwhelming it was, you'll just have to read on 


Asahina Mikuru's Adventure Episode 00 


Her name is Asahina Mikuru. At first glance, she seems like a normal, healthy and cute young 
girl, yet she is really a time traveler from the future. If you happen to know someone called 
"Asahina Mikuru" somewhere else, that's simply a coincidence, just wanted to let you know. 

Anyway, Asahina Mikuru's true identity is a battle waitress from the future. Why does the 
waitress have to come from the future? And why did she have to dress up as a waitress? Asking 
such insignificant questions is meaningless, all I can say is, that's how the story is set. In fact, not 
a single character here has a valid raison d'etre. 

This is all decided by someone from somewhere high up above. 


For now, let us secretly observe this Asahina Mikuru. 

Normally she would dress up as a bunny girl, since this happens to be part of Mikuru's daily life, 
which involves attracting customers to visit the local shopping street. Every night, she would 
change into her bunny girl costume, and carry a large plastic placard in front of the stores and 
advertise for them with her shy voice. In other words, this is what normal people would call a 
job. 

As she came all the way from the future, she ought to be able to make money more efficiently, 
but since this story is created without any consideration for those matters, I might as well let 
everyone know about this before you get your hopes up too early. 

This means that this battle waitress from the future would normally dress up as a bunny girl. 

Before anyone asks if there's a meaning in dressing like that, I'd also like to inform you that 
you'll probably never find out the answer till the end. In other words, it is meaningless. Even if 
there is a meaning, it is most likely the mystery would never be solved. If it can't be solved, it's 
pretty much meaningless as well. It makes no difference whatsoever. 

Today Asahina Mikuru was again dressed in her hot bunny girl costume and waving a plastic 
placard in front of the stores, and helping the owners make ends meet. 



"Everyone please stop by! We have new supplies of fresh cabbage for today! And there's a 
limited sale! For the next hour, each cabbage will be at half price! The lady over there, don't 
delay!" 

Mikuru can be seen shouting with a stiff voice while standing in front of the grocery. The bunny 
ears on her head aren't the only things swinging from her tiny figure, but something else on her 
body. Most of the grocery customers are middle-aged housewives, so no one was sure how 
getting a cute girl to advertise can be effective. Yet the sight of Mikuru sincerely working hard to 
advertise has already moved thousands of hearts, and everyone who passes by the grocery would 
smile pleasantly, and naturally they wouldn't mind parting with their money. 

"Mikuru-chan, you're energetic today as well," 

This deadpan dialogue was read out by a bystander, as Mikuru revealed her bright red sunflower 
smile, 

"Thank you! I'll do my best!" 

The cosplay girl who worked too hard replied and continued to spread her innocent charm at the 
shopping street. 

She has the magical ability to alter a customer's menu for tonight's dinner from a simple cabbage 
into a vegetable hot pot! This is coupled with this amazing sentence, 

"Hurry up and get them while stocks last!" 

The grocery immediately became packed with people. In a short while, all the discounted 
cabbages were sold. 

Mikuru was then summoned by the grocery owner, Morimuri Kiyosumi-san (age 46), who gave 
her an envelope with her salary in it, 

"You've always come to help us out. This isn't much, but please take it," 

Mikuru received the envelope from Morimura-san's hands, which were weathered by many years 
of blood and sweat, and said, 

"Don't mention it. You're being too generous, I'm always being looked after by you, since this is 
all that I can do " 

Mikuru bowed and thanked him, she's a very humble girl ever since the beginning. She stuffed 
the envelope into her very low decolletage and said, 

"I've got to help out the butcher's next, so please excuse me. See you later!" 



Mikuru carried her plastic placard and ran along the shopping street. She has now become the 
irreplaceable mascot of this shopping street and is very popular with the residents here. 

Best of luck, Mikuru. Pull back all the customers who have been snatched away by the Wal-Mart 
a few blocks away since it opened last year. The fate of the local community and the small 
personal shops all rest on your shoulders. 

One is tempted to recite the above paragraph when looking at her back. 


However, Mikuru didn't travel back in time from the future in order to rescue a local shopping 
street in decline. Her bunny girl appearance was simply a cover identity, because remember, 
she's a battle waitress. Actually there's not much difference whether she's dressed as a bunny girl 
or as a waitress, but that's how the story is set. 

This is because the story is the product of someone's instantaneous random thoughts, and as a 
result, the plot lacks any planning whatsoever. 

So, Mikuru's real purpose, her true mission, was to secretly protect a young man. 

This young man is called Koizumi Itsuki. At first glance he looks like a high school student you 
would find anywhere, but he is actually an esper. If you happen to bump into someone who is 
also called "Koizumi Itsuki," I'm sure everyone would have guessed by now without me 
explaining, that this is just a coincidence. 

Even though he's an esper, Koizumi Itsuki wasn't aware of this himself. It was only by chance 
that the supernatural powers hidden within him were awakened. Just to be safe, he is currently 
living the life of a high school student, a life that from a subjective and objective perspective can 
be defined as normal. 

Today, Koizumi Itsuki carried his bag and the usual casual smile on his face as he walked home 
from school. He would always pass through this shopping street every day on the way to and 
from school. 


Itsuki was secretly being observed by someone standing in the shadows. From this person's long 
bunny ears and near-naked costume, it is not hard to guess that this is none other than Mikuru. 
Normally one wouldn't wear such clothes that would stand out when stalking, but as this was her 
regular attire, she didn't have much choice. 


Phew, 



Mikuru sighed deeply. She seems to be relieved that Itsuki seems to be safe for now. She also 
resembles a kouhai sighing at herself for not having the courage to say hi to the sempai she 
admires. Just thinking about this is enough to piss me off, so I decided to ignore the latter 
possibility. 

After seeing Itsuki walk away, Mikuru used a felt-tip pen and wrote on her plastic placard, "100 
grams of brisket for only 98 yen (with heart-shaped symbols and cute cow illustrations.)" She 
then looked a bit dejected as she walked in the opposite direction away from Itsuki. 

After nodding her head to everyone's greetings along the way, Mikuru arrived in front of the 
dimly lit stationery store. The owner of this store, Suzuki Yuusuke-san (age 65), is the president 
of this shopping district council, he is also the person who provided Mikuru with her current 
lodgings. 

"Welcome back, Mikuru-chan. Was the work hard today?" 

Suzuki-san spoke in a formal tone as he smiled gently like a kind grandfather while greeting 
Mikuru. 

"Um Not at all. There were a lot of customers today Um, it's prosperous, I think that's 

how you would describe it." 

"Good, very good." 

After nodding and thanking Suzuki-san, Mikuru walked up the slightly steep stairs. Passing a 
narrow corridor, she entered a small Japanese-style bedroom, Mikuru's current lodging in this 
time period. 

As Suzuki-san himself lived elsewhere, this room was originally unoccupied, I'm not too sure 
about the details; but anyway, this is where the time-traveler Mikuru currently lives. 

After closing the door, Mikuru began to slowly take off her bunny girl costume. Sadly, this very 
seductive scene was cut. The next scene shows her crawling into her bed, wearing a very loose 
T-shirt, and that was the end of that scene. 


On the other hand, there was someone else observing Koizumi Itsuki with what can only be 
described as thoughtful eyes. 

That person is Nagato Yuki. While she looks like an extraordinary and exceptional girl, in reality 
she is an evil alien magician. This can be figured out by the odd costume she's wearing, a wide- 
rimmed pointy hat with a large cape over her shoulders. By the way, if you happen to know 



someone called "Nagato Yuki," that's just a coincidence I'm sure you're all sick and tired of 

hearing that already. 


ti 


n 


Carrying a poker face without any emotions in it, Yuki stood on the roof of a high school 
building. This high school is the one Itsuki attends, and judging from the scene, this Yuki seems 
to be planning something for Itsuki; yet judging from the time this scene was shot, Itsuki has 
already gone home. In other words, Yuki is standing on the school's rooftop when Itsuki is no 
longer at school. Now that's a very awkward cut-in scene. 

A while ago in the shopping district, one could tell it was near sunset, yet right now the sun was 
above Yuki's head, and the rays are now much stronger. No matter how one tries to hide it, it's 
not hard to figure out that this scene was filmed during lunch break. This shows how much of a 
headache the director gives to the editing team when she disregards the continuity of the scenes. 

This also applies to all the upcoming scenes as well. 


As we're running short on time, we now skip to the first battle between Mikuru and Yuki without 
any explanation whatsoever. 

For some reason the battle takes place at the forest park. After a meaningless scene of Mikuru 
running through among the flying pigeons, we now come straight to this battle. 

Right now she's no longer wearing her bunny girl costume, but rather her waitress costume, the 
mini-skirt of which is simply too short. Mikuru, whose charm increased tenfold by tying her hair 
into two ponytails, now carries a rather heavy automatic pistol. In a way, she revealed a sad 
expression like that of a martyr who is prepared to sacrifice her life. This expression wasn't made 
under the director's instructions, but was in fact showing the lead actress's genuine feelings. 

On the other hand, Nagato Yuki, cloaked all in black, seemed oblivious to what was going on. 
She simply stood there and held a magic wand with a star in her hand. 

The two girls now stared back and forth at each other in what is supposed to be a face-off. 
Mikuru doesn't seem comfortable with this, perhaps thinking that she wouldn't stand a chance in 
such a battle? 

"Ahh!" 

Mikuru shut her eyes tight and waved her gun blindly as she pulled the trigger. The bullets now 
flew out of the gun and towards Yuki's direction. Yet most of them didn't even hit their intended 



target, and whizzed past Yuki. One could count the number of bullets reached to the target with 
all five fingers. 

Obviously Yuki was not going to stand there and become a bullseye, she slowly waved her "Star 
Ring Inferno," her ridiculously-named wand, and swiftly swept the bullets onto the ground. 

"Sob " 

Very quickly, all the bullets have been fired. Silence fell once again on the battlefield, 

"V, very well! I'll just have to use my secret attack! Take this " 

It seems rather early to be using her secret attack already. We now see Mikuru yell cutely as she 
threw away her gun and widened her beautiful eyes. 

Her blue left eye was widely opened as she placed a V-shape finger gesture over her face, 

"Mi, Mi, Mikuru Beam!" 

One yell and one blink later, a deadly laser would be fired from that eye of hers. The fatal laser 
would travel at the speed of light and slice through everything that it touches - that's supposed to 
be the case, but someone wasn't going to allow Mikuru to succeed. 

That person was none other than Nagato Yuki. 

Without any special effects used during filming, Yuki had moved instantaneously, and blocked 
the Mikuru Beam with her right hand. Before the laser could even make a hissing slicing sound, 
Yuki had already arrived in front of Mikuru. 

"Kyaa!?" 

Mikuru was startled at the shadow suddenly looming quickly towards her. Yuki moved in such 
speed that the sight of her figure has become blurry. She easily grabbed hold of Mikuru's face 
and pressed her to the ground, 

"Ah Na, Nagato-san !" 

The black cloaked Nagato was now sitting on a terrified waitress. 

What will happen from now on? What fate awaits Mikuru? And when will Itsuki be able make 
his appearance by chance? 


All these questions will be answered eventually after these messages for Oomori Electronics, 
announced by none other than our two female protagonists. 




£3 

All these questions will be answered eventually after these messages by Oomori Electronics , announced 
by none other than our two female protagonists. 

Welcome back, the movie now resumes with Mikuru the waitress walking aimlessly along the 
street. 

"I can't believe the Mikuru Beam didn't work at all I must think of something else," 

Mikuru talked to herself as she walked along the shopping street. Looking tired, she dragged 
herself back to the stationery store and into her room, which doesn't even have a single decent 
piece of furniture in sight, and began to change again. After all, she isn't a Power Ranger; she 
would have to take off the clothes she's wearing if she is to transform. 

When the door reopened, Mikuru once again reappeared in her bunny girl costume, then walked 
down the stairs looking depressed. 

Looks like she still has to work today, regardless of the outcome of the battle. I wonder if she's 
serious or dense, or just really passionate about her work? The protagonist of this movie is sure 
going through a lot of tough times, which is kind of similar to Mikuru's own experience when 
she made this movie. 

At this moment, Koizumi Itsuki, as usual, was walking along the road with a thoughtful 
expression on his face. 

Ahead of him stood the mysterious dark-cloaked figure - Nagato Yuki. This time a cat can be 
seen sticking out his paws and clinging to Yuki's shoulder. It looks as though the cat is trying to 
keep his balance more so than Yuki. As Yuki was already good at concealing her presence, it 
came very suddenly when she appeared and blocked Itsuki's path. 


Making a startled expression, Itsuki stopped in front of the magician with a cat. 

"Who art thou?" 

Any simple line was far better than this, but that's what was written on the script, so there was no 
other choice. 

"I am " 

Yuki paused for a moment, then said, 

"A magic-wielding alien." 

Itsuki stared at the cat and responded, 

"Is that so?" 

"Yes." 

Yuki also stared at the cat. 

"So how may I help you?" 

"You have a hidden power that I want." 

"And what if I refuse your request?" 

"I must obtain it, even if it means using extreme means." 

"What do you mean by extreme means?" 

"Like this." 

Yuki waved her "Star Ring Inferno," from which the star-shaped symbol fired a piercing laser as 
fast as lightning. 

"Look out!" 

A bunny girl leapt out from the side and grabbed hold of Itsuki, and then they both fell towards 
the ground. The lightning-fast beam missed its target and disappeared after hitting the electric 
post. 

The sight of Mikuru's slim figure being hugged is enough to infuriate. For some reason, Yuki did 
not continue her attack. 



Mikuru was now seeing stars as she smacked her head when falling to the ground. Only when 
Itsuki shook her shoulders did she wave the stars away. 


"Ouch " 

Rubbing her head, Mikuru stood up, then defiantly pointed towards Y uki and said, 

"I won't let you have your way " 

Yuki looked straight at Mikuru, then glanced expressionlessly towards the whiskers of the cat 
sitting on her shoulder, and then returned her gaze towards Mikuru again and said, 

"I will retreat for now. You won't be so lucky next time. Before then, try to think of what to write 
on your tombstone, for I will show no mercy next time, and will definitely annihilate you." 

I don't understand why she wants to give Mikuru some breathing space. Anyway, after saying 
that, Yuki's tiny figure slowly walked away. 

Itsuki now spoke, 

"May I ask who are you?" 

"Eh?" 

Mikuru, who just managed to breath a sigh of relief, now looked tense again, 

"Ah, um I'm just a bunny girl passing by! That's all! G, good bye!" 

She then ran away as though running after Yuki. 

"Just who is she " 

Itsuki looked pointlessly far off into the distance, and the camera also panned up pointlessly 
towards the white clouds which signals the end of this scene. 


The second battle between Mikuru and Yuki takes place by a pond. 

As you all know by now, there is no explanation for how we have come to this battle already. 
You can use your own imagination to figure out that a lot must have happened I think. 

"I'm not going to back away because of this! Y, you evil alien Yuki. Hurry up and leave 
Earth ! You Um " 



"You are the one that should disappear from this time period. He is ours. That is how valuable he 
is. Though he has yet to discover that he possesses such precious powers. We will need his 
powers in order to invade Earth." 


"I, I, I won't let you have your way, even if it means losing my life." 

"In that case, die!" 

This time Yuki didn't bring her cat, but instead brought three people who seem to be high school 
students. Of these three people, there was an energetic girl and two confused-looking young 
men. 

It seems that the long-haired girl is an acquaintance of Mikuru's. 

"Ah, ah, Tsuruya-san E, even you have Please come to your senses!" 

"Mikuru, you have no right to ask me to come to my senses dressed like that!" 

This "Tsuruya-san" showed her true self for an instant and intentionally twitched her mouth, 
"Mikuru, I'm sorry. I don't want to do this, but I can't control myself. I'm really sorry." 

"Kya?" 

"Come, Mikuru, prepare to die-" 

Tsuruya-san, whose acting was superb, now slowly approached Mikuru with the other two 
people. 

Yuki stayed behind and commanded the situation by waving her wand. Some sort of unknown 
psychic waves must have been emitted from that magic wand of hers, turning Tsuruya-san and 
the other two into Nagato's personal zombies. 

The terrifying Yuki has actually using such a devious method so that there's no way for Mikuru 
to fight back. What will Mikuru do? 

"Waaaaaa, waaaaa-!" 

Looks like there was nothing she can do. 

Poor Mikuru now has her arms and legs carried by Tsuruya-san and the other two, who then toss 
her into the green murky pond. Somehow, one of the two male zombies, the goofy looking one, 
also fell into the pond as well. Don't worry about him, he'll climb out by himself anyway. 

"Ah, help Waa !" 



The pond looked very deep indeed. Mikuru was now in a state of panic, and was beating the 
water frantically, which also meant she was hardly moving away from her spot at all. At this rate 

she will sink to the bottom of the pond and become food for the fish. Mikuru couldn't swim 

Or rather the story says she couldn't swim, so all she could do was splash frantically on the 
water, creating lots of white foam. Mikuru is now in great danger. 

On the other hand, this is also a great opportunity to give the female protagonist a helping hand. 
"You okay?" 

Coming in calmly was Koizumi Itsuki. He knelt down by the pond side, and like a main 
character from a comic book, reached his hand out to Mikuru who was close to drowning. 

"Hold my hand tightly. Calm down. Make sure you don't pull me in as well." 

Here comes the question. Just where on Earth did Itsuki come from? The pond has few places to 
hide nearby. Judging by how long it takes for him to reach Mikuru after she fell in, he must have 
been watching all this from the sidelines. What's even more incredible was that Yuki, who up till 
now was still waving her wand, had now vanished without a trace along with her three 
henchmen. This was a great chance to finish off Mikuru. Just where the hell did they all go? 

" Brr Cold " 

After being rescued by Itsuki, Mikuru coughed non-stop and crawled onto shore slowly. 

"What are you doing in a place like this?" 

Itsuki asked, but Mikuru didn't answer. She only stared blankly at him, and then after a while she 
finally spoke, 

"What was I doing? Well I got thrown into the pond by some bad people Ugh " 

At this moment, a sound came from afar, followed by Mikuru moaning and fainting at once. 

Yup, according to the script, she's supposed to faint by now. 

"Hey, are you all right?" 

Lying on Itsuki's shoulder, Mikuru's figure slowly slumped to the ground. 

Usually, when guys like Itsuki face such a situation, they would usually call an ambulance or call 
someone nearby for help. Yet Itsuki went against convention and picked up Mikuru. You 
bastard! Just where do you think you're taking an unconscious cute girl to? Even if you tried to 
scream at him like that, Itsuki still slowly walked away looking determined. 


So determined, as though he was being controlled by psychic waves, he carried Mikuru away 
from the scene. 



He then took her to a place. 


That place is none other than where he lives. 

The director may have omitted a lot of detailed filming, but it's not hard to guess that Itsuki's 
house must be very enormous, which can be observed from him carrying Mikuru into his very 
spacious Japanese-style room. 

Besides the fact that Itsuki has committed the unspeakable sin of carrying Mikuru in his arms, 
another thing of note is that Mikuru seems to have just taken a bath and is now looking very 
captivating. 

Yet it's very hard to imagine how an unconscious person can take a bath all by herself. This also 
means that besides having her body molested by the hands of this grinning hypocrite, there's no 
guarantee that nothing else has happened to her. Before these questions even have a chance of 
getting processed by the brain, one would already be consumed by wrath, which would in turn 
manifest itself into a murderous intent. Kind of like how I'm feeling right now. 

Instead of being concerned about being ambushed by Yuki, Itsuki ought to worry more about 
how half the school is going to go after his life. 

It's already criminal enough to bring a girl, who has been stunned senseless after nearly 
drowning, to his own room while she's still unconscious. To give her a bath would be beyond 

criminal, it would be a crime of the most primitive nature. The person who did this No, the 

bastard Itsuki who did such a despicable act ought to be sliced into many pieces alive, and his 
family would get no compensation for that either. It's his fault for actually doing what every guy 
in the school wants to do instead. 

Itsuki now placed Mikuru on a mattress which wasn't there before, and then knelt beside her. He 
crossed his arms and went into deep thought. Wanna bet? I bet that his mind is probably very 
empty right now. 




& 

Itsuki now placed Mikuru on a mattress which wasn't there before, and then knelt beside her. 

Seeing how he has obediently followed orders from afar, he now moved closer to Mikuru's face. 
If he dares move one centimeter closer, then someone who isn't supposed to appear in the movie 

would break the fourth wall and beat the crap out of Koizumi I mean the guy who plays 

Itsuki. Fortunately, he was stopped by someone whose appearance in this scene isn't that 
surprising. 

"Hold it," 

Sticking her head in the window, and looking like a grim-reaper girl in training, is none other 
than Nagato Yuki. I forgot to mention this is the second floor so no one knows where she was 
standing by before she entered this scene, and please do try to continue and suspend your 
disbelief. 

Yuki, who would be more appropriately called an angel in funeral garb than a grim reaper, lept 
through the window and quickly stood up again. 

"Koizumi Itsuki, you shouldn't choose her. Only by joining with me can you fulfill your power's 
potential," 

Yuki said plainly while staring at Itsuki with her dark eyes which remain calm for 24 hours a 
day. 

Itsuki's acting is honestly crap. He didn't look panicked at all when he found out that Yuki had 
appeared suddenly through the window. When it was his turn to speak - 

"Huh? What do you mean?" 

Only then did he raise the pitch of his voice and make a serious face. 



"I cannot explain right now, but one day you will understand. You have two choices: You can 
choose me and advance this universe towards its true form, or choose her and pluck out the 
possibilities of the future." 

If I remember correctly, 30% of this line by Yuki was made up on the spot. Is that sentence 
directed to Itsuki's real identity? 

As for the true meaning of Nagato's Sorry, Yuki's words, we'll leave that till later. Itsuki now 

looked troubled and went into contemplation, 

"I see. No matter which path he chooses No wait, right now that would be me in this scene. 

The key is with me, right? Come to think of it, there's not much a key can do besides opening the 
door. If that door opens, something would happen, right? I'm afraid if something does 
happen " 

Itsuki paused for a while, and for some reason he looked at the camera with very thoughtful eyes. 
Just who the hell is he speaking to? 

"I understand now, Yuki-san. Right now I don't have the right to decide yet. It's still too early to 
come to any conclusions now. Can we leave this decision till later? We still need time to think 
about it. Of course if you're willing to tell us everything, then that's a different story." 

"It won't be far off before we do that, but I am certain it is not now. We are used to viewing 
insufficient data as defects. We will not make any move if we are not absolutely sure of it." 

Such an enigmatic conversation. There seems to be a bond of understanding between Itsuki and 
Yuki which no one else can comprehend. 

Yuki nodded slowly, then looked at the pink faced Mikuru sleeping soundly. She then climbed 
out of the window and disappeared at once. She didn't exactly jump off from the second floor. 
She merely lept onto the balcony. It's just that it can't be seen from the camera. 

Itsuki once again reverted to his thoughtful expression and continued to look at the sleeping 
Mikuru. 

When Mikuru wakes up and realizes her current situation, she will be so embarrassed that she'll 
probably throw anything at Itsuki that she can lay her hands on. After all, she was staying all 
alone with a guy and wearing only a T-shirt. It's only natural that she would think she has been 
molested and proceed to beat the crap out of Itsuki, right? Please do let the story go in this 
direction. 


Despite all these expectations, it's time for another commercial. We now present you with these 
messages from Yamatsuchi Model Store, again announced by our female protagonists. 



After the commercial, the story now takes us to a brand new setting, with all the battles from 
before all completely forgotten. Suddenly we're now in a romantic comedy, I seriously don't 
know what the director is thinking anymore. 

According to the script, Mikuru has settled down in Itsuki's place, and the story's now basically a 
fluff story about a young couple living together. The romance is so cheesy that one feels like 
playing deadjust to get through the embarrassment of having to watch this. 

Scenes include Itsuki trying to swallow some terrible cooking by an excited Mikuru; Mikuru 
sending Itsuki off to school at the door, accidentally touching Itsuki's finger, and jumping in 
shock in an exaggerated way; Mikuru blushing furiously; and Mikuru working hard on the 
chores and merrily greeting Itsuki as he returns from school. 

I felt like screaming, Give me a break already! However, screams like these are likely to fall on 
deaf ears, so naturally I suppressed the impulse. Itsuki and Mikuru continue singing songs of 
praise for pure romance. Koizumi, mind if I swap places with you? 

By the way, Koizumi Itsuki is currently living with his sister - in order to accommodate the 

sudden changes to the script, this ten year old fifth grader was brought in Sorry, she just had 

her birthday last month, so she's now eleven. She's now seen running around and tagging along 
with Itsuki and Mikuru. Now this is yet another enigmatic scene, just what was the meaning in 
introducing Itsuki's sister anyway? 

Amidst all this romance, the battle between Mikuru and Yuki over Itsuki has now been moved 
into Itsuki's school. 


Now who would've thought that Yuki would have transferred into Itsuki's school? I have no idea 
how on Earth the director came up with such filler material. As far as the plot goes, Yuki has 
abandoned her black cloak having decided that it would be a better strategy for her to befriend 
Itsuki in order to get closer to him, while marginalizing Mikuru at the same time. She began her 
mental assault on Itsuki by placing love letters inside his shoe locker. She then followed that up 
by bringing two sets of boxed lunches, looking for Itsuki during lunch time, waiting for Itsuki by 
the school gate after school, and secretly keeping photos of Itsuki in her wallet. I think that's 
more of an inspiration than a strategy. 

Needless to say, Mikuru also went on the defensive against Yuki's maneuvers. She promptly 
transferred into Itsuki's school as well. Wouldn't it be better if they both transferred at the 
beginning of the story instead? Since Mikuru is here to protect Itsuki, it wouldn't be odd for both 
of them to be in the same school. In fact, it would sound absolutely normal. 



Unbelievably, and without any explanation at all, Mikuru and Yuki did not fight each other with 
their mysterious beams and flashing wands. Seems like both of them have now switched their 
objective into seeing "who can capture Itsuki's heart first." 

The story was already quite confusing to begin with, and now it has developed into a two girl 
romantic harem story. 

It was pretty obvious that Yuki would be at a disadvantage. Since Mikuru and Itsuki are now 
living together, they have all the right conditions to becoming a couple. For Yuki, who no one 
knows where she's staying, this is a difficult wall to climb, just like how the Great Wall of China 
has deterred the northern nomadic tribes from invading. 

In order to turn things around, the script has Yuki resort to extreme methods. 


"Waa! What are you doing?" 

Disregarding the situation, Yuki embraced Itsuki tightly. Looks like the director wanted to shake 
Itsuki up by giving him some sudden physical contact with girls. Yet the executor of this plan, 
Yuki, was way too expressionless. It's really hard to read any emotional upheavals from this. 
Instead, this scene looked rather absurd. 

This is because her movements and expression were not congruent at all. 

On the other hand, Mikuru ought to look jealous upon finding the two of them embracing each 
other. Meanwhile Itsuki doesn't even seem slightly concerned with all of this commotion. There's 
just no emotion at all in their acting. 

Then again, one shouldn't really be concerned with what Itsuki does anyway. 

In fact, looking at the clock, it's about time for all the actors to gather around to wrap things up 
for the ludicrous finale. 


Maybe they've begun to grow tired of this lighthearted high school romantic subplot, in which 
they've come to an unspoken truce. Mikuru and Yuki would occasionally don their usual 
costumes and return to their posts as a battle waitress and alien magician, where they would go 
into random skirmishes. 

The story becomes more and more confusing with the development of the following scenes: 


Mikuru and Yuki + Yuki's magic apprentice cat Shamisen fighting in the back alley; 



Mikuru and Yuki + Shamisen fighting in the bamboo garden at the back of the school; 


Mikuru and Yuki slugging it outside someone's residence, with Shamisen looking very bored; 

Mikuru and Yuki running round and round in Itsuki's house, while the little sister laughs in 
amusement and carries Shamisen in her arms. 

After all these irrelevant scenes, the viewer would be utterly exasperated to find that the romantic 
triangle subplot has reappeared for no reason once again. 

So far, Itsuki has remained indecisive over Mikuru and Yuki. Looking at his experience, it's only 
natural for the audience to curse his good luck, and it's pretty obvious that the audience would be 
completely composed of males. Sadly, the god in charge of the script, who also happens to be the 
Ultra Director, has kicked all those noises out of the window and was determined to continue 
stubbornly. 

That is why the development of the plot has so far been like a gorilla participating in a cycling 
race without knowing how to brake. She would crash every time she turns, and then she would 
barge her way forward as though nothing had ever happened. 

Yet, no matter how many brilliant ideas our Ultra Director had, no matter how inconsiderate she 
was, she eventually realized that if this "shoot as we go along" approach were to continue 
without an ending, the story would just go on and on, though it wasn't till very late that she had 
noticed. 

How late was it? To the point of nearly getting burnt on the arse if no ending were made, of 
course. 

Anyway, there won't be any closure if the story is allowed to run astray like this. So all the 
broken scenes of each character doing god-knows-what have been forcefully joined together and 
were rushed along as we approach the end. 

Finally, we decided to have Yuki remember the reason she came here in the first place and have 
her declare a final battle with Mikuru. 


One morning, Mikuru found a letter inside her shoe locker. Inside was a small note, with words 
written as though they were printed from a printer that read, "Let's put an end to this." 

You know, if Yuki really wanted to annihilate Mikuru, she didn't have to go through the trouble 
of notifying her beforehand. She could have done so in all the previous battles. Come to think of 
it, Yuki would sometimes be an expressionless high school student who would stand aside and 



do nothing, and other times she would be an enigmatic alien who would do battle with Mikuru. 
Just what does she want to be? 


Mikuru's thoughts were just as enigmatic. After reading the note, Mikuru looked determined as 
though she were preparing to do something while clutching the note. She looked far off into the 
distance and nodded her head vigorously. Just what on earth has she realized? I've probably said 
this many times already, but I just can't understand at all. The only person who could understand 
would be the one who has never even shown herself in front of the camera. 

As a cameraman, I may not be able to understand, but I do know that, thankfully, everything in 
this world that has a beginning must have an end, providing salvation for one stuck in a 
seemingly never-ending infernal hell. 

And finally, we have come to the climax of the story. 


Making her cameo once again, "Tsuruya-san" now came forward and asked Mikuru, who was 
looking troubled, 

"What's wrong, Mikuru? You look as though you got molested by an old geezer. Or did your 
doctor say you've got athlete's foot?" 

Standing by the corner of the classroom, Mikuru replied, 

"The time has finally arrived. I must go and fight my final battle." 

"Sounds great, Mikuru. We're counting on you! The fate of the Earth rests upon your shoulders!" 

After muttering her lines, Tsuruya-san twitched her face, and finally laughed out loud, not being 
able to hold on any longer. 

" I'll do my best," 

Mikuru said softly at a volume that could barely be picked up by the microphone. 

It's probably futile trying to question the deep flaws of this story. Just how did Mikuru and 
Tsuruya-san know each other? When Tsuruya-san first appeared as a mind-controlled zombie in 
the pond scene, it seems that they already knew each other then. If that's the case, then Yuki's 
mind control attacks ought to take place afterwards. This would make that battle scene more 
intense as the audience would realize that Mikuru and Tsuruya-san are supposed to be friends. I 
dare say that this mix up in the order of scenarios is all due to the director's negligence. 



Of course, the annoying Deux Ex Machina was adamant that she knew what she was doing, and 
ignored all these accusations, while pouring all her passion into shooting whatever came into her 
mind. As a result, she has slaved ordinary people like me to exhaustion already. 


It was decided that the final battle would take place at the roof of the school. 

Yuki waited on the roof during lunch time, dressed in her black magician cloak with Shamisen 
clinging to her shoulder. 

A few seconds later, the door to the roof opened and Mikuru, in her battle waitress costume, now 
entered. 

"D, did you wait long?" 

"Very long." 

Yuki answered frankly. In fact, Mikuru had gone to the bathroom to change into her costume, 
which was why she took so long. As cameraman, I too have waited for quite some time. 

"Then " 

The ever frank Yuki now recited the long-prepared dialogue, 

"This time, we will put an end to all of this. We do not have much time. This must end in the 
next few minutes at the latest." 

"I feel the same way too But! Itsuki-kun will definitely choose me! Um This may sound 

embarrassing, but that's what I firmly believe!" 

"Unfortunately, I do not intend to respect his wishes. I need his powers, that is why I must have 
him. Even if it means conquering the whole Earth." 

Well you could always conquer the planet first then kidnap Itsuki along the way. Because by 
then no one would be able to resist you, and Mikuru will be isolated as most people would have 
followed the majority and would gladly hand Itsuki over to you. Even a cute battle waitress 
would have a hard time trying to overturn this overwhelming majority. 

If you even have the ability to conquer the Earth, what's so difficult about capturing Itsuki? 

"You won't have your way! That's the reason I arrived from the future!" 



Ah, yes, of course. I nearly forgot, Mikuru is a battle waitress from the future. But the movie's 
almost finished now, I simply don't know why the screenwriter wanted to include this time 
traveling plot device when it's hardly ever used. 

The laser battles between Yuki and Mikuru now commence once again. 

Mikuru went "Hiyaaa!" and "Take this!" while shooting lasers, beams, missiles and mini black 
holes from her eye. On the other hand, Yuki simply remained silent and waved her wand. 

We must create an atmosphere which can't be done with computer effects alone! Under this 
command, firecrackers were used extravagantly on the roof. Even though these were all 
abandoned firecrackers obtained from the toy store storage, they would still make loud noises 
when ignited. As a result, a few teachers came rushing up from downstairs and gave us a good 
scolding. 


Getting scolded by the teachers is inevitable when you play with fireworks in school. 

Should my disciplinary record be given negative points as a result, please have them transferred 
over to the director, thank you. Even if she were to pool all the negative records of Asahina-san, 
Nagato and Koizumi, she would still be able to get herself off the hook thanks to her excellent 
academic record. If that girl could sit down quietly, no one would find any fault in her. 

Ignoring the cameraman's narrative, the battle rages on. 

This is all credit to our director who, undaunted by the teachers' demands to leave the school roof 
at once, even warned them that if they were to stop us from shooting this important scene, she 
would threaten to sue the school for attempting to stifle the students' freedom of expression. 

Now that would be pretty scary if that were to happen. 


I don 't care. Just don 't play with fire! - The teachers hesitantly left the roof with this parting shot. 
The roof was now packed with curious onlookers who were increasing in numbers, causing 
Mikuru to become even more embarrassed. 




Mikuru went "Hiyaaa!" and "Take this!" while shooting lasers, beams, missiles and mini black holes from 
her eye. On the other hand, Yuki simply remained silent and waved her wand. 

Under intense pressure, Mikuru was now in a desperate situation. All her attacks on Yuki had 
been futile, and with Yuki slowly moving closer, Mikuru could only back up and was now forced 
to the fence by the edge of the roof. 

"Now die in peace! I will select a nice tombstone for you. Try to perform many good deeds in 
the afterlife so that you can enjoy your karma when you reincarnate." 

Yuki waved her wand as she bid her farewell to Mikuru, 

"Goodbye." 

In an instant, the wand known as the "Star Ring something" gave an unusual glow, and the 
inexpensive flashlight flickered a few times. 

"Kyaa — !" 

Mikuru held her head and wrapped herself into a bundle. 

Though it's hard to comprehend what kind of attack that was, we just know that it's a very 
powerful one. Watching the screen alone, one can see many lasers being fired from the wand, it 
must be some terrifying magical spell capable of disintegrating Mikuru to the molecular level. 

You have to hang in there. If we don't arrange for a climax here, there won't be another chance. 

"Waaa! Aaa — !" 


Yet all Mikuru could do was scream in agony. 



Normally, one would be feeling annoyed already by the uselessness of the female protagonist, 
but since she is just too cute, one is ready to tolerate that. 

However, even if someone were willing to tolerate her, at this rate, Mikuru would be defeated. 
Under the mainstream concept of good triumphing over evil, the ending of this movie would 
provide a thinly-veiled satire on how those in power would always win in reality. 

tl f n 


Obviously the movie was not going to end like that. Standing in the side of justice, our last- 
minute hero is not going to just disappear like that when the story is approaching its end. An 
invisible hand would always arrive coincidentally, which is just plain impossible in real life, to 
repel evil and rescue the damsel in distress. Yet that was the scenario thought up by our director. 

The person who came in to rescue Mikuru was of course Koizumi Itsuki. I mean, who else can it 
be? Without any subplots, there was simply no room to introduce new characters anyway. 

In the nick of time, Itsuki grabbed Mikuru and successfully dodged Yuki's attack. Yuki's magic 
beams seem to be coordinating with the stunt as they were slowed down as well. 

"Are you all right, Asahina-san?" 

After saying that, Itsuki turned to face Yuki and stretched his arm towards her, 

"I can't allow you to hurt her. Yuki-san, please show some mercy." 

Seeing Itsuki standing with his legs wide open in front of a worn-out Mikuru, determined to 
protect the pretty girl at any cost, Yuki showed signs of contemplation as she looked at the cat on 
her shoulder. She's probably thinking if she can't get Itsuki on her side, should she kill him along 
with Mikuru as well? 

Yet, it was an unexpected character who answered that question for her, 

"What's there to think about? All you need to do is steal that young man's conscience. I hear that 
you have the ability to mind control other people. So just mind control him and then lure him to 
somewhere safe. Then you can easily eliminate this girl who dares stand against you." 

The one speaking was Shamisen, so you could guess how horrified I was. I specifically told him 
many times not to talk, and he just wouldn't shut up. He can forget about his meal tonight. 

"Understood." 

The ever composed Yuki lightly tapped her star-shaped wand on Shamisen's head, and the cat 
quickly shut his mouth. 


Yuki then spoke as though talking to herself, 



That was ventriloquism. 


After announcing that as a matter-of-fact, she raised her Star- whatever god-damned wand and 
said, 

"Then bring it on, Koizumi Itsuki. I will make you into my puppet." 

After some cheap sound effects, a flash of lightning emitted from the star-shaped tip of the wand. 


Needless for me to say, one can pretty much guess how things are going to develop, so I'll just 
make a brief description of what follows. 

To make things simple, Itsuki's hidden power has now been released to its maximum potential. 
Not even aware of it himself, Itsuki, being forced into a hopeless situation, now finds his secret 
power being awakened and has become a full-fledged esper. This esper power is so great that it 
can't be controlled, not even by Itsuki himself. Using this mysterious power, which is probably 
caused by emotional turmoil, he managed to reflect all of Yuki's offensive and attacked the 
black-cloaked alien with all his might. 

" How unfortunate." 


"Meow-." 


Leaving these two lines, the enigmatic partners Yuki and Shamisen were blasted off into the far 
end of the universe, making an unimpressive yell of defeat. 

After sending off Yuki and Shamisen, Itsuki turned around and said softly to the female lead, 

"It's all over now, Asahina-san," 

Mikuru lifted her terrified little face and looked at Itsuki with what seemed like glowing eyes. 

Itsuki stretched his arm to pull Mikuru up to her feet, then placed his hands on the balcony rail as 
he looked up to the skies. Following his gaze, Mikuru also looked upwards; the camera also did 
the same and turned towards the clear blue skies. 

It's obvious this pan-up technique was used because no one knew how to connect the scenes 
properly. 

Under the cherry-blossom filled streets on a cool autumn day, Mikuru and Itsuki walked side by 
side with each other. How infuriating to see that the waitress costume actually matches well with 
the school's uniform. 



Coincidentally, a strong gust of wind came wooshing in, blowing the scattered cherry blossom 
petals into little spirals. For the whole movie, only this scene was genuinely natural. 


Carrying a smile, Itsuki took down the petals which had fallen onto Mikuru's silky hair. Looking 
embarrassed, Mikuru's cheeks now reddened, and she slowly closed her eyes. 

The camera focus then suddenly moved away from the two of them and into the blue autumn 
skies above. Why are we doing a pan-up again? 

The ending theme, which was randomly nicked from somewhere, now begins to play as the 
credits roll. 


Last but not least, a post-filming narrative was added in the end. And so this SOS Brigade 
presentation, the story of "Asahina Mikuru's Adventure Episode 00," now ends in a very 
confusing manner. 

It was rare to have a movie that was messy from beginning to end. If this sort of mix-and-match 
thingy can be called a movie, then it would be too disrespectful to those who actually give their 
all to seriously produce movies. Yet for some reason, this horrid movie was actually quite 
popular. At first, this movie was supposed to be screened together with the other movies made by 
the Film Club, but in the end our movie had shoved aside all their productions and occupied the 
screening room's projector. I hear this was to give in to the growing audience demand for the 
movie, but this was mainly due to someone making a lot of noise in lobbying for it. Of course the 
fact that Asahina-san had a lot of admirers also helped. 

I later heard that the poor guys at the Film Club were forced to screen their movies in broken 
segments whenever they had the opportunity. 

As no fee was charged, we naturally did not make any money. Yet the movie's success prompted 
the producer-director to begin drafting plans for a sequel. She even made an edited version titled 
"Asahina Mikuru's Adventure Director's Cut," which was burnt into DVD to be sold in the 
market. Both a teary-eyed Asahina-san and I are now in the process of convincing her to let go of 
that idea. 

Though no matter what she decides to do, we'll always end up in a mess. Forget it, it's going to 
be some time before it becomes a mess, if the SOS Brigade still exists by then. 

It'll still exist, right? 

I guess I have to ask a time traveler that question then. I just hope the information's not classified 
- 1 quietly tell myself. 



(Asahina Mikuru's Adventure Episode 00 End) 


Charmed at First Sight LOVER 

Charmed at First Sight LOVER 


It all began with an annoying phone call. 

It's always like this every year. Once Christmas is over, all the festive feeling simply vanishes 
without a trace. As we count down towards the end of the year, when Haruhi would begin the 
activities that she'd come up with, I had a brief period of winter vacation in which I could get 
some breathing space. 

At that time, I was busy with the end-of-year spring cleaning chores, while wrestling with 
Shamisen in my room, 

"Hold still. Be a good boy, it'll be over soon," 

"Meow-" 

I ignored his protests and lifted up the twisting furball, with new fur grown for winter, holding 
him under my armpit. 

Memories of the time Shamisen reduced my cherished jean jacket to a piece of worthless cloth 
serve as a painful reminder to regularly cut his claws. Shamisen also seems to have a good 
memory as well for a cat, as every time he sees me walking towards him with a nail cutter, he 
would always attempt to escape at the fastest speed possible. 

It was a nightmare trying to catch him, as I had to hold down a cat that would claw, kick and bite 
endlessly, while I tried to straighten his paws in order to cut his claws to a reasonable length, one 
by one. My hands would always be covered in claw marks once it was over, but while physical 
wounds can always be healed, the embroidery on my jean jacket can never be mended, so I dare 
not relax for a moment. How I miss the days when he could eerily speak and understand the 
human language. What happened to the straight-talking you? 

Forget it, if he starts speaking again, it means something big has happened again. A cat ought to 
behave like one and just make meowing noises. 

As I was done trimming the claws on Shamisen's right front paw and was working towards his 
left front paw... 


"Kyon-kun! You've got a phone call!" 

Barging into my room without knocking was my sister, carrying the cordless phone in her hand. 
When she saw Shamisen struggling in a battle of dignity and authority between cat and human, 
she smiled, 

"Ah, Shami, do you need help cutting your claws? Let me help!" 

Shamisen turned his gaze away from her, as though she were a busybody, and snorted like a 
human. I once asked my sister to help me cut his nails. At that time we split our tasks; I was in 
charge of holding his paws while my sister was in charge of the cutting. Unfortunately this 
eleven-year-old fifth grader didn't know when she was going too far, so she didn't have the 
talents for cutting nails either. In the end she cut far too deep into Shamisen's nails and he went 
on a hunger strike for a week in protest. Compared to her, my cutting skills were obviously 
better, but as always he would still run and claw everywhere. Are the brains of a cat as big as 
their foreheads? 

"Who is it?" 

I put down the nail cutter and picked up the phone receiver. Seeing a chance to escape, Shamisen 
quickly jerked loose and kicked off my knee before finally running out of the room. 

My sister happily picked up the nail cutter and said, 

"Um... it's a guy. I don't know him, but he says he's your friend!" 

She then ran off to chase after Shamisen and disappeared into the corridor outside. I stared at the 
phone and thought, 

Who could it be? If it's a guy, then it couldn't be Haruhi or Asahina-san. If it was Koizumi, then 
my sister would've recognized him as well. Taniguchi, Kunikida and my other friends would 
always call me on my cell phone, not my home phone. If it's some boring telephone poll or 
salesperson, they can go to hell... I thought as I pushed the talk button. 

"Hello?" 

"Hi, is that Kyon? It's me, it's been a while." 

As the rough voice said the first sentence, wrinkles appeared on my forehead. 

Who the hell's this guy? I never heard this voice before. 

"It's me! We were in the same class in junior high, remember? Do you know how much I've 
sighed during the past six months as I was thinking of you?" 


What the!? That's gross! 



"Identify yourself. Who are you?" 

"It's Nakagawa. We were still classmates a year ago, have you forgotten after just a year? Or 
have you made new friends in high school and now you've forgotten all your classmates from 
junior high? How cold-hearted!" 

The voice in the phone sounded very sad, yet... 

"Of course not," 

I opened my memory banks and retraced my memories in my third year of junior high. 
Nakagawa, huh... I think I remember there was such a person in my class. He was a wide- 
headed, broad-shouldered, and a muscular athletic looking guy. I think he was in the Rugby 
Club. 

But... I once again looked at the receiver. 

We were only classmates in our third year, and we weren't particularly close to each other. We 
hung out with different groups in class. While we would occasionally greet each other when we 
walked by, I definitely don't remember ever having a conversation with him. After graduation, 
Nakagawa's name and appearance never even registered once in my mind. 

I picked up the claw shreds dropped by Shamisen on the ground and said, 

"Nakagawa, is it? So you're Nakagawa, it really has been a while. So, how are you doing? I 
remember you entering an all-boys school. Well? Why are you calling me now? Have you 
become the Secretary of the Alumni Association?" 

"That position has already been filled by Sudou, who's now in Municipal High, but that's not 
important, of course I'm calling you for a reason. So listen carefully, because I'm serious about 
it," 

You called all of a sudden just to say you're serious? After such an ambiguous sentence, my wits 
were at an end as to guessing just what he was trying to say. 

"Kyon, you have to seriously hear me out. The only one I can talk to about this is you, you're my 
lifeline," 

Now isn't that exaggerating a bit? Alright already, hurry up and say it. I'll just have to hear what 
you've got to say to a classmate who wasn't that close to you in school and has no impression of 
you after graduation. 


I think I'm in love, 



"I'm serious. I've been troubled about it. For these past few months, whether I was awake or 
asleep, I can only think of this," 


"I'm up to the point where I can no longer concentrate on doing anything else. No, that's not true. 
I still managed to immerse myself in my studies and club activities. Thanks to that, my grades 
have actually improved, and it took less than a year for me to become a regular on my team." 


"This was all fueled by my love. Do you understand, Kyon? I'm so troubled deep inside. After 
looking for your home number in the junior high school book, do you know how long I hesitated 
before calling you? Even now, my body is still trembling. This is love, it's the amazing power of 
love that has compelled me to call you. I hope you understand." 



£3 

I licked my lips. A cold sweat trickled down my forehead. Oh god, I should never have answered this 
phone 

"But, Nakagawa..." 

I licked my lips. A cold sweat trickled down my forehead. Oh god, I should never have answered 
the phone... 

"I'm sorry, but I don't think I can accept your love... All I can say is I'm sorry. I really am, I just 
can't promise you anything, " 

I guess you could say a cold shiver just went down my spine. Now let me set the record straight, 

I am an absolutely normal heterosexual male. My preference for "the same team" weighs less 
than that of a humming bird, in other words, it's non-existent. Whether subconsciously or 
unconsciously, my preference has been "straight". See? Aren't I right? My body would go hot 



just thinking about Asahina-san. If Koizumi had called me saying such stuff, I would've hung up 
already. By the way, I'm not bisexual either. Do I make myself clear? 

My mind was full of rhetoric I wasn't sure who to address to, I continued to speak on the 
receiver, 

"So, Nakagawa, we can still remain as friends, but..." 

Though we don't have anything between us that could warrant us as friends, 

"I don't think I'll be able to commit myself to a romantic relationship, I'm sorry. That's all. If you 
want to pursue romance, try the boys school you're studying at instead, as I intend to lead a 
normal high school life. I'm glad to be able to hear your voice after so long. If we should ever 
meet in an Alumni Gathering, I'll pretend not to remember and would still treat you with respect. 
I also won't tell anyone about this, so good bye..." 

"Hold it, Kyon!" 

Nakagawa said sounding astonished, 

"What are you talking about? Don't get me wrong, you're not the person I'm in love with. 
Where'd you get such ideas anyway? That's gross," 

Then what were you saying all those romantic stuff for? If you're not saying it to me, then who 
was it for? 

"Actually I don't really know her name, I just know it's a girl from North High..." 

Though I hadn't completely understood what he was talking about, I breathed a sigh of relief, 
like a soldier in the battle trenches relieved at hearing that a truce has been made. There was 
nothing scarier than hearing a confession of love from a guy... for me, that is. 

"Can you please elaborate more? Just who was it that you're in love with?" 

There is a limit to talking so confusingly. I am this close to putting you in my ignore list, you 
know? 

By the way, what was wrong with this guy? Talking about loving someone already in his first 
year in high school. Even if it is love, it still is quite embarrassing to actually say who you like. 

"It was in spring... sometime in May," 

Nakagawa began recalling his memories, he sounded very nostalgic as well, 


"That girl was walking with you. I only need to close my eyes and her image would appear in my 
mind. Ah... her appearance is just so adorable, absolutely beautiful. Not only that, I even saw a 



glowing aura behind her back. That wasn't my illusion, yes, it was as holy and pure as the 
heavens shining upon the earth..." 

His rememberance sounded like those dangerous drug hallucinations, 

"I was completely overwhelmed. It was a feeling I've never had in my life, it's as though an 
electric current just went through my whole body... No! It was like being struck by a mega- 
lightning bolt that nailed me to the ground. I then stood there for hours, it seems as though I've 
lost all sense of time. By the time I regained my senses, it was already nightfall. And then I 
realized, this is love!" 

Let us organize Nakagawa's Andromeda Strain-induced ramblings. From what he has said, he 
saw me walking with someone back in May, and he was awestruck by that person, who happens 
to be a North High girl... in that case, the suspects are significantly narrowed down. 

The number of girls that have walked on the streets with me and Haruhi was very small, and I'm 
not making this up. If it's limited to North High schoolgirls, then my sister would be off the list, 
which would leave just the three SOS Brigade girls. 

This means... 

"This has all been determined by fate," 

Nakagawa continued to revel in his glorious moment, 

"You know, Kyon? I had never believe in those mythical things like love at first sight. I too had 
considered myself to be a materialistic person. Yet love has arrived so suddenly, and it has 
opened my eyes. There really is love at first sight, Kyon~" 

Why must I listen to you ramble on and on? Love at first sight? Seems like your eyes have been 
covered by some external skin. 

"N, no... that's not true!" 

Looks like this fellow was pretty sure of himself, 

"I'm not the sort to be fooled by a girl's looks or figure, what's most important is her inner 
character. I saw through to her inner character with one look, and that was enough. That 
powerful impact made a strong impression on me that will be impossible to replace. Sadly, I just 
can't express this in words, all I can say is I've fallen in love. No, I'm still falling... do you 
understand, Kyon?" 

That was what I didn't understand. 


Forget it, let's leave that aside, 



I decided to put an end to Nakagawa's never ending insane chatter, 

"You say you were struck by the lightning thrown out by that girl back in May, right? But it's 
already winter now. It's over half a year now, just what have you been doing until now?" 

"That's it, Kyon, now that you've mentioned it, I now feel even more depressed. I've been at a 
lost of what to do for these past few months. My mind has never rested since then, as my feelings 
could not find a way out. I was thinking all the time whether I would be a good match for that 
girl. I'll be frank, Kyon, I only just thought about contacting you recently. It was because you 
were walking beside her that I remembered you and decided to look up the junior high school 
book for your number. Her beauty is just so dazzling, never before has a girl made me go crazy 
like this." 

To lose oneself completely over a girl whose name you don't even know, and to be stressed 
about it for nearly half a year, isn't your obsession a bit too scary? 

Asahina-san, Haruhi, Nagato - their faces appeared respectively in my head. I decided to go 
straight to the point. To be honest, I already felt like hanging up long ago, but judging from how 
seriously intoxicated Nakagawa sounded, if I hung up on him, I'll probably have to face a 
barrage of fatal serial calls from him. 

"Describe what the girl you have fallen for looks like." 

Nakagawa went silent for a while... 

"She had short hair," 

He said as though retracing his memories, 

"And she wore glasses." 

Ah. 

"The North High sailor uniform looked as though it was made specially for her. She looked 
gorgeous in it." 

Uh-huh. 

"And she was completely engulfed in this glittering aura." 

Well, I don't know much about that, but... 

"Do you mean Nagato?" 

It really was a surprise. At first I thought the person that would drive Nakagawa nuts would 
either be Haruhi or Asahina-san, I never thought it would be Nagato. Taniguchi sure knows how 



to grade his girls. The first time I saw her, I thought she was just a silent and weird ancient doll 
sitting in the club room, I never knew there were so many people with such refined taste. Of 
course, my impression of Nagato now has changed greatly since then, especially in the past few 
months. 

"So her name's Nagato, is it?" 

Nakagawa's voice began to sound excited, 

"How do you spell that? Can you please tell me her full name?" 

Nagato Yuki. Nagato as in the battleship Nagato, Yuki as in "having hope". 

"...It's a good name. One would think of the impressive battleship Nagato, while her name Yuki 
symbolizes that there is hope... Nagato Yuki-san... it's just as I thought, it's a clear name, full of 
possibilities. Elegant, yet not overbearing, and it doesn't sound aloof. It's just as I have imagined 
it to be!" 

How did he imagine it to be? What sort of delusion could he see with just one look? You say you 
only care about inner character, may I ask what does one's inner character have to do with love at 
first sight? 

"I just knew," 

He said matter-of-factly, his confidence was beginning to sound irritating. 

"This is not a delusion. I'm sure of it, that no matter what she looks like or what her personality is 
like, she possesses a kind of rational beauty. I saw in her the wisdom and logic that one would 
find in a deity; she's the sort of highbrow girl that one might never meet in one's whole life," 

I think I'll look in the dictionary for the word "highbrow" later, for the questions in my head still 
remain unanswered, 

"That's what I don't get. Why is it that you know she would be noble just by looking at her once? 
You've never even spoken to her, you merely saw her from afar!" 

"I just know, that's why I'm so hopelessly in love with her!" 

Why should I listen to you yell for no reason!? 

"I'm so grateful to God. I'm so ashamed of myself for not believing in him before. Since then I 
have regularly gone to a nearby shrine to pray every week, I would also occasionally go to 
churches, both Catholic and Protestant." 

Praying blindly everywhere is more unfaithful than not believing anything at all. Besides, it's not 
like you'll get results every time you pray. Pick one deity and stick with praying to him. 



Yeah, you're right, 


Nakagawa replied casually, 

"I thank you, Kyon. I'm even more determined now because of you. From now on, I'll only pray 
to one goddess, and that is the Goddess Nagato Yuki. She would be my only goddess, to whom 
I'll give my unconditional love..." 

"Nakagawa," 

As he'll just go on and on, I quickly interrupted him. Partly because it just sounded too cheesy, 
and partly because I was becoming irritated for some reason, 

"So what do you want? I already know why you called, but what next? You know it's pointless, 
telling me about your love for Nagato." 

"I need you to relay a message for me," 

Nakagawa said, 

"I hope you can give a message to Nagato-san. Please, you're the only one who can help me. 
Since you were walking side by side with her, you should be pretty close to her, right?" 

He's sort of right. We were both members of the SOS Brigade, and we are still happily rotating 
as satellites around Haruhi's orbit. Besides, the Nagato he saw walking with me was the 
bespectacled Nagato back in May. I see, so it was back then, the first SOS Brigade Mystery 
Search, the time when I went to the library with Nagato. How nostalgic... compared to then, my 
understanding of Nagato has now increased hundreds of times, so much so that I'm beginning to 
wonder if I've come to know too much about her. 

With these memories in my mind, I asked Nakagawa, 

"Right, you say you remember seeing me walking with Nagato..." 

To be honest, I felt uncomfortable asking this question, 

"But, why did you only think that I was merely close to her? Didn't you think that I could be 
dating Nagato?" 

"Not at all," 

Nakagawa didn't flinch a bit, 

"You are the sort who's fond of weirder girls. Like back in our third year... now what's her name, 
weren't you going out with that enigmatic girl?" 



You, as a Nagato-lover, are the least qualified to comment on my preferences. I suddenly felt as 
though I'd just lost my balance, but it's obvious he got something wrong. Ah yes, Kunikida has 
gotten that wrong as well. I was just friends with that girl, now that I think about it, we've not 
even met since our graduation from junior high. I still do occasionally think of her every few 
days, I wonder if I should send her a New Year greeting card... 

For some reason, I feel as though I'm digging my own grave, perhaps I should change the 
subject. 

"So, what is it that you want me to relay? An invitation for a date? Or do you want me to ask for 
Nagato's phone number? I'm sure that's an easier favour to do," 

"No," 

Nakagawa's response was bullish, 

"Right now I'm still a nobody, how could I just appear before Nagato-san like that? I'm just not 
qualified, that's why..." 

He paused for half a beat or so, 

"Can you please tell her... to wait for me." 

"Wait for you to what end?" I said. 

"Wait for me to propose to her. Will that do? Because right now I'm just a first year high school 
student without any social experiences." 

Well, I'm not that much different from you. 

"That won't do. Listen to me, Kyon. I'm going to work really hard from now on. No, the truth is 
I've already been working hard. At this rate, I would qualify for a state university with my 
grades." 

Well, it's good to have a long-term objective. 

"I'm going to do a major in Economics. I'll continue to study hard once I'm in a university, and 
try to be the best amongst the North High graduates. Once I'm out in society, I'm not going to 
join some big company, but I'm going to get a job with a medium or small- sized firm." 

He sure knows how to talk, and it sounds as though it's all going to happen. If a ghost were to 
hear him say such stuff, he'd probably laugh so hard he'd get a stomach ulcer. 

"But I won't be content with being a classless person. Give me three years... no, I'll only need 
two years, I'll learn all the knowledge that I'll need to start a business." 



I'm not going to stop you, so go ahead and give it a try. If by then I'm having trouble with my 
career, mind if I work under you? 

"After that, the company that I've created would take five years... no, I'll try to settle this in three 
years, by then it'll be listed in the Second Section of Topix. Its projected annual growth will be at 
least ten percent, and it'll all be net profit." 

I find myself struggling to catch up with Nakagawa's mode of thinking, but he seemed to be 
getting more excited as he went on, 

"By that time, I will be able to take a small break, since all the preparations will be ready." 
"Preparations for what?" 

"Preparations for my proposal to Nagato-san." 

I fell silent like a deep-ocean shellfish, while Nakagawa's words felt like a torrent of waves 
splashing towards me. 

"I still have two years before I graduate from high school, and four years from university. My in- 
job training would take two years, while it'll take three years for me to set up a company and get 
it listed in public. That's a total of eleven years. No, let's round that off to ten years. In ten years, 
I'll be a formidable entrepreneur..." 

"Are you nuts?" 

I'm sure you would all understand why I was suddenly so rude. What girl in her right mind 
would wait for him for ten years? Not to mention that the girl has never even met him before. To 
suddenly have a guy ask her to wait ten years for him so that he could propose to her, if she had 
actually waited mindlessly, then she wouldn't be from this world. Unfortunately, Nagato just so 
happens to be from out of this world, literally. 

I bit my tongue and waited. 

"I'm serious." 

What's worse was that he actually sounded serious as well, 

"I'm willing to bet my life on this, because I really mean it." 

If sounds have blades in them, then his voice sounded as though it could cut through many wires 
at once. 

Now what should I do to get this over with? 


Well... Nakagawa, 



The image of Nagato silently reading her book appeared in my mind, 


"This is just my personal opinion, but Nagato actually has a lot of hidden admirers. So many that 
she's already feeling exasperated by them. I commend you for your fine taste in Nagato, but she 
is going to remain single for now, and the chances of her waiting ten years for you are close to 
zero." 

I actually made all that up, how was I to know what would happen in ten years? I wasn't even 
sure of my own future. 

"Besides, something this important ought to be told in person to Nagato herself. Though I'm 
reluctant to do it, I'll still help arrange a meeting for you. It's the winter vacation now, so it 
shouldn't be a problem asking her to spend one hour meeting you." 

"I can't do it," 

Nakagawa's voice suddenly went soft, 

"Right now, I don't think I'm capable of seeing her. If I saw Nagato-san's face, I would faint at 
once. Actually, I have seen her from afar recently. That time, it was just outside the supermarket 
by the station... though it was at night, I still recognized her back, I was instantly frozen, and I 
stood there until the supermarket was closing. If I were to meet her directly... the consequences 
would be unimaginable ! " 

Oh boy, Nakagawa has been completely infected by the love virus. He even set out his plans for 
the next ten years, such was an indication of how serious his illness was. While there exists a 
cure, it'll only be available after he has been awestruck by meeting the alien directly, and then 
having her reject him and run away. 

Besides, he has already gone to great lengths to call a person he barely knew just to bemoan his 
agony. Even more terrifying, it was impossible to predict what he's going to say next. I already 
have to put up with Haruhi, and now Nagato has brought me another annoying person to deal 
with. 

Sigh I deliberately sighed loudly so that Nakagawa could hear, 

"Well, basically I understand already. Just repeat what you want me to say to Nagato." 

"Thank you, Kyon," 

Nakagawa sounded really grateful, 

"We'll definitely invite you to our wedding. I'll have to ask you to write a speech for us then, 
you'll be the first to give the speech. I'll never forget you for my whole life. If you ever feel like 
making a name with me, I'll make sure there'll always be a place in my company for you." 



"No thanks, just hurry up already!" 

I listened to Nakagawa's anxiously irritating voice while placing the receiver on my shoulder as I 
grabbed a blank piece of paper. 


After noon the next day, I quietly climbed up the slope towards North High. As the altitude 
slowly rises, the white vapour coming out of my breath became more visible. As to why I was 
walking to school during winter vacation, it was because the SOS Brigade was holding its 
regular meeting today. 

Today was also the day on which we would do some spring cleaning of the club room. Asahina- 
san would occasionally sweep the floor, but as with the second law of thermodynamics, in which 
the total entropy of any isolated thermodynamic system tends to increase over time, this rule also 
applies to our club room. (The concept of entropy originated from the German physicist Rudolph 
Clausius in 1862 to define the dispersal or degradation of usable energy (often incorrectly 
explained as "disorder") in a system. In a theoretical reversible process this amount would 
remain the same, though in any real process this amount increases (irreversible). For example, if 
no one had offered to help clean a lazy person's room, the room could only get messier — it'll 
never be tidied up all by its own.) All sorts of junk were gradually brought into the club room to 
create a kind of orderly chaos, and the culprit responsible for all this mess was none other than 
Haruhi, who would grab anything she fancies. Not to mention Koizumi bringing in one board 
game after another, Nagato bringing in more and more thick books and reading them at the speed 
of a flying arrow, as well as Asahina-san, every day trying to brew the perfect tea... In other 
words, everyone besides me was guilty. It'll become chaotic if we continue to leave it like this, 
so I suggested it's time to bring the stuff back to each of their homes, with the exception of 
Asahina-san's cosplay wardrobe staying at least. 

"Man, what a pain," 

I just couldn't walk at a relaxed pace because of an extra piece of note paper in my jacket pocket. 

That note contained a word-by-word dictation of Nakagawa's declaration of love for Nagato. It 
was so retarded that I had to restrain myself from throwing the pencil away many times when 
writing it down. The only people I could think of who could say such embarrassing stuff without 
any shame would be some professional conmen; besides that, I can't think of anyone else. "Wait 
ten years for me"? Give me a break already! 


Walking into the mountain breeze, I arrived at the familiar school complex. 



Arriving at the club room complex, I was still an hour early for the meeting. 


This was not because I was afraid of the rule that whoever comes last has to treat everyone, that 
rule only applies for activities outdoors. 

On the phone last night, Nakagawa said before going, 

"Don't just copy it down and then give it to her, you'll just be a substitute author then. Who 
knows, maybe she wouldn't read it. You have to recite the whole thing to her in person, using the 
same passionate tone that I just used..." 

That was the most ridiculous request I've ever heard. I have no reason, nor am I so simple, to be 
jerked around by that idiot. Yet after sincerely pleading with me, coupled with the fact that I'm 
generally a nice person, I just couldn't find a way to refuse him. Therefore, I desperately need to 
find a situation where no one else was around besides Nagato. If I went an hour early, the other 
members wouldn't have arrived yet, except for the familiar, ever reliable and ever present alien- 
created Living Humanoid Interface, Nagato Yuki. 

After formally knocking the door and hearing a silent reply, I opened the door. 

"Hi there!" 

I wonder if I sounded too unnatural? My mind urged me to rephrase that sentence, 

"Hey, Nagato. I knew you'd be in here." 

Inside the club room, filled with the chill of winter, Nagato looked like a life-sized doll which 
one would not detect any warmth from, sitting quietly on her seat and reading some thick 
hardback book about some sort of disease. 


The poker face looked at me without any expression. Looking as though she was going to touch 
her forehead, she lifted her arm, but then lowered it again. 

That movement looked as if she was about to push up her glasses, but Nagato doesn't wear 
glasses now. It was I who said she looked better without glasses, and it was she who decided to 
leave it like that. So what was that action for? Has the habit from six months ago come back? 

"The others haven't arrived yet?" 

"Not yet." 

Nagato answered concisely and returned her gaze back to the page packed with so many words 
that there were almost no spaces between them. Was she the sort that would feel a sense of great 
loss if she wasn't doing anything? 



I walked stiffly towards the window and saw the central courtyard below, which was visible 
from there. As today was a holiday, the school was nearly empty. Some of the more cold- 
resistant members of the various sports clubs can be heard chanting from afar through the 
window glass. 

I stood facing Nagato. It was the usual Nagato, her skin white as ever, and her face blank as ever. 

Now that I think about it, we haven't had a four-eyed girl for quite some time. Who knows if 
Haruhi would grab another four-eyed girl just to do a corporate reshuffle? 

I thought of such useless stuff while taking out the well-folded notebook paper out from my 
pocket, 

"Nagato, there's something I need to say to you," 

"What is it?" 

Nagato flicked a page with her finger tips, I took a deep breath and said, 

"Some lame bozo says he fancies you, I've decided to help him all the way and help him declare 
his confession. Well? You want to hear?" 

According to my plan, the moment Nagato says "no" right there, I would proceed to tear up the 
paper to shreds. But Nagato just looked at me without saying anything. To me her icy-cold 
looking eyes suddenly looked as warm as if they had melted into water, was it because my 
opening line was so impressive? 


Nagato shut her lips tight and stared at me like a surgeon examining a patient, 

"Is that so?" 

She slowly uttered those three words above, while still looking at me without blinking. As she 
seems to be waiting for me to continue, I had no choice but to unfold the paper and began to 
recite Nakagawa's confession, 

"Oh my Great Goddess Nagato, as Your most faithful follower, I am distressed that I can only 
express my adoration of you this way. May the Goddess please forgive my insolence. In fact, 
from the moment I laid my eyes on Your Holiness..." 

Nagato kept looking at me while silently listening. Yet I was the one who was feeling more and 
more uncomfortable. As I was reading Nakagawa's stupefying confession, the whole thing just 
felt more and more stupid. Just what on earth was I doing? Was I nuts!? 



Nakagawa's story ended at the time when he has bought a huge house in the suburbs and is living 
an idyllic life with two kids and a white dog. As I was reading this diary of the future, I noticed 
Nagato was still staring silently at me. I suddenly had a feeling I was doing something extremely 
stupid. 

Why did I agree to do this ! ? 

I stopped reciting. If I were to continue reading this piece of lunacy, even I'll go insane. It's 
unlikely I'll ever become close friends with Nakagawa, since I'd never hang out with someone 
who could come up with such cheesy lines. Now I knew why we barely knew each other back in 
junior high. After falling in love at first sight, his feeling incubated for nearly half a year before 
he suddenly asked me to be his messenger, and his message has to be a totally ridiculous love 
confession. Sigh, he was beyond help. 

"Forget it. Anyway, that's about the gist of it. I'm sure you more or less get it?" 

Nagato simply said, 

"Understood." 

She then nodded. 

She does? 

I looked at Nagato, and Nagato looked back at me. 

Time passes by quietly as though the words of silence grew wings and flew around us... 


Nagato slightly tilted her neck, but apart from that she didn't do anything else, but continued to 
stare at me. Um... now what? I should be talking, right? 

As I was running through my vocabulary on what to say... 

"I have received the message that you have relayed to me." 

Her gaze never moved away, 

"But, I cannot comply with his request." 

She said in her usual calm manner, 


"I cannot guarantee that my self-control mechanism can continue to remain stable for the next 
ten years." 



After finishing, she shut her lips tight again. She never once changed her expression or moved 
her eyes away from me. 

"No..." 

The first to budge was me, I pretended to shake my head just so I could look away from those 
dark eyes of hers which looked as though they were about to suck me in, 

"You're right. Ten years is just too long." 

Though the confession's problem didn't just lie with a waiting time that was too long, I still 
breathed a sigh of relief. As to where this relief came from, to put it simply, I just didn't want to 
see Nagato getting close with Nakagawa or some other jerk like him. I don't deny that I still have 
some impression of that other Nagato in my mind when Haruhi had disappeared. Nakagawa 
wasn't too bad, he can even be classified as a nice guy, but I just can't get rid of the image of that 
Nagato looking distressed as she softly pulled my sleeve. 

"I'm sorry, Nagato," 

I crumpled the piece of paper into a lump, 

"It's my fault. I shouldn't have dictated this thing word-for-word, and I should've turned down 
Nakagawa's request on the phone. Please forget what just happened. I'll have a word with that 
idiot. Don't worry though, I don't think he's the sort that would become a stalker." 

But, if Asahina-san were to suddenly have a boyfriend, I'd probably stalk him all day... 

Huh? So that's why, that's how it is. 

Now I knew what this uncomfortable feeling in my heart was. 

Whether it was Asahina-san or Nagato, I just can't stand any guy getting between them and me! 

It was that simple. That was why I felt so relieved, I guess I'm an easy-to-understand guy. 

What about Haruhi, you say? Ah, if it's that girl, then I'm not worried at all. Haruhi would 
usually ignore any guy that dares to pursue her. Should the skies one day fall and Haruhi actually 
begins to go out with someone, then she wouldn't be busy looking for aliens or time travelers. 
That should be a good news for the Earth, and I'm sure Koizumi would be delighted at the 
decrease in workload. 

After that, the turbulent and surreal part of my life would come to an end. Maybe that day would 
really arrive, but I was sure it wasn't now. 

I opened the club room window. The incoming wintry breeze, which was so chilly that it could 
cut a wound in the finger, clashed with the warm indoor air, which was warmed by our body 
temperatures. I thrust my arm out and threw the lump of paper I had in my hand as far as I could. 



The lump of paper slowly floated along the wind and landed silently on the large grassy knoll 
adjacent to the corridor linking the main school complex and the club room complex. I guess it'll 
soon be blown into a water duct by the complex building, and then decompose along with the 
fallen leaves and return to nature... 

But I guessed wrong! 

"Oh shit!" 

There was a person walking on that very corridor that suddenly changed direction and headed for 
the grassy knoll. That girl turned and glared at me as though I've just thrown a cigarette butt, and 
proceeded to pick up the lump of paper that I just threw. 

"Hey! Don't pick that up! And don't read it either!" 

Ignoring my futile protests, she picked up the garbage that no one asked her to, she then opened 
up the crumpled paper and began to read it silently. 


Nagato continued to look silently at me. 

Let us take some time to consider the following questions: 


Q1 . What was written on that piece of paper? 
A1 . A confession of love for Nagato. 


Q2 . Whose handwriting was on the paper? 
A2 . My handwriting. 


Q3 . What would a stranger think if he had read this? 
A3. He'll probably misunderstand. 


Q4 . Then, what would Haruhi be thinking if she had read it? 
A4 . I don't even want to know. 



And so, Haruhi read the piece of paper thoroughly for some minutes, and then lifted her head up 
and looked sharply at me, while revealing an evil smile that looked sinister, seemingly up to 
something. 

...As expected, today was definitely not a good day! 


Ten seconds later, she had already entered the club room in the most ferocious speed possible 
and was grabbing me by the collar, 

"JUST WHAT THE HELL WERE YOU THINKING!? Are you an idiot!? I'm gonna have to 
throw you out of the window just to knock some sense into you!" 

She yelled while carrying a smile, only that her smile looked a bit stiff. If the strength that she 
used to drag me towards the window were converted into energy, it would be enough to supply a 
day's worth of indoor heating. Not even my frantic attempt at explaining could reduce the 
intensity of this strength, 

"No, wait, I can explain! I was helping this old classmate of mine called Nakagawa..." 

"What!? Are you trying to shove all this to someone else!? It's your handwriting, isn't it?" 

Haruhi said menacingly while she dragged me back, she then stared at me with her large bell-like 
eyes from a distance of just ten centimeters. 

"You gotta let me go first, I can't say anything properly if you pull me around like that," 

As I was tugging and pulling with Haruhi, a fourth person had arrived at the wrong moment. 
"WAH!?" 

Asahina-san's eyes were as big as a tray as she stood outside the door. She elegantly covered her 
mouth and said, 

"...Um... are you in the middle of something? I wonder if I should come back later..." 

While we were in the middle of something, but it was nothing serious. Besides there's nothing 
fun about twisting and pulling with Haruhi, it would be a different story if it were with Asahina- 
san though... Anyway, please do come in. From the past to the present, I have never once denied 
Asahina-san the right to enter, nor do I intend to. 



Furthermore, Nagato's sitting here in the club room as though nothing's happening, so there's no 
reason why Asahina-san couldn't come in. If she could help me get out of this mess, she was all 
the more welcome. 

As I was smiling at Asahina-san while tussling with Haruhi at the same time... 

"Oh my," 

The last member had arrived, sticking his head from behind Asahina-san, 

"I wonder if I arrived too early?" 

The fellow revealed a cheerful smile and swept aside his hair parting, 

"Asahina-san, it would seem we have arrived at an unsuitable time. Perhaps we should return 
later until they settle some domestic affair. I'll pay for your coffee at the vending machine as 
well." 

Hold it, Koizumi. If you were treating our wrestling around as some typical domestic squabble 
between a married couple, then I suggest you go have your eyesight examined. Oh, and don't try 
to use this as an opportunity to abduct Asahina-san. Asahina-san, this is really nothing, so there's 
no need for you to worry and nod your head and agree with him. 

Currently Haruhi was clutching my shirt tightly with all the strength she could muster, while I 
grabbed on Haruhi's wrists. At this rate I'm going to suffer from ligament pains, I quickly 
decided to call for reinforcements, 

"Hey! Koizumi! Where do you think you're going? Come and help me!" 

"Hmm, now whose side should I stand on?" 

Koizumi decided to play dumb, while Asahina-san stood stiffly and blinking non-stop like a 
terrified little rabbit. She didn't even notice Koizumi casually placing his hand on her shoulder as 
he attempted to play the knight in shining armour saving the damsel in distress. 

What was Nagato doing then? I took a glance and noticed Nagato was doing what I thought she 
would do, she hardly looked concerned and continued to read her book. Oh come on, it was all 
because of you that I'm now in such big trouble, why can't you at least say something? 

And then, Haruhi's clutches became even tighter, 

"I must be blind as a bat! I can't believe I've actually recruited someone so dumb as to write such 
a stupid love letter into my brigade! Now that pisses me off! You're to resign immediately! Man, 
I feel so terrible, it's like sticking a bare foot into a shoe full of cockroaches!" 



Even though she was full of rage, Haruhi still managed to display an enigmatic looking smile. 
It's as though she didn't know what expression to use in such a situation, 



imW 


£3 

First, you are to leap up a wall with a dry salted fish in your mouth and fight for territory with other wild 
cats! And you have to wear cat ears while doing that! 

"Before arriving here, I've already thought up of thirteen kinds of punishments! First, you are to 
leap up a wall with a dry salted fish in your mouth and fight for territory with other wild cats! 
And you have to wear cat ears while doing that!" 

If Asahina-san were the one doing that in her maid uniform, I'm pretty sure it would be a sight to 
behold; if I were to do it, the next thing you'd see would be me being hauled off in an ambulance. 

"Though we don't have cat ears," 

I turned towards the window and sighed. 

I'm sorry Nakagawa, if I don't bust you, I'll become the next object that gets thrown out of the 
window after that lump of paper. If possible, I didn't want to reveal anything about you, but if 
Haruhi's misunderstanding were to continue, even Mother Nature would be messed up. 

I took a look at the widely opened eyes of the Queen of the Brigade, using the same comforting 
tone when trying to calm Shamisen down as I cut his claws, I said, 

"Listen to me, it's... you'll have to let go of me first, Haruhi. I'll explain everything until even 
your dull wits finally get it." 


Ten minutes later. 

Haruhi sat on a steel chair with her legs crossed while sipping her green tea, 

"Your friend sure is weird. Although he's entitled to fall in love at first sight, this obsession is 
just pushing it too far. What a jerk." 



Love not only makes a person blind, it causes brain damage as well, you know. Ah well, it's not 
that I disagree with her last statement anyway. 

Haruhi waved the piece of wrinkled up letter, 

"At first I had thought you had teamed up with that idiot Taniguchi to make fun of Yuki. Since it 
sounds like the stuff that he'd do, not to mention Yuki's the quiet, obedient type of girl, she's 
bound to get fooled." 

I don't think you'll be able to find anyone in this galaxy harder to fool than Nagato. But I didn't 
interrupt and listened quietly. Probably sensing me refraining from talking, Haruhi took a quick 
menacing glance at me before suddenly reverting to a relaxed expression, 

"Forget it, you wouldn't even dare do such a thing, You neither have the intelligence nor the 
cunning anyway." 

I wasn't sure whether she was complimenting me or dissing me, but at least I wouldn't do 
something an illogical elementary school kid would do. And no matter how crap Taniguchi was 
at expressing himself, he wouldn't do something so childish either. 

"But..." 

The one who lit the fuse was the resident fairy and angel of the SOS Brigade, 

"I think it sounds romantic," 

Asahina-san said indulgently, 

"If someone were to go crazy like that over me, I think I'd be happy... Ten years, huh? I'd 
certainly like to meet someone who was willing to wait ten years for me. So romantic..." 

She clasped her fingers while her eyes glittered. 

I wasn't sure whether the 'romantic' that Asahina-san spoke of was the same 'romantic' that I 
think of. I just felt that they have differing definitions. Maybe the vocabulary has changed in the 
future. After all, she was the sort of person who didn't even understand how a boat could float on 
water until someone explained it to her. 

Oh yeah, Asahina-san's attire today was rather normal, a simple sailor uniform. This was because 
her maid uniform, nurse uniform and all other costumes have been sent to the laundry, including 
the frog suit as well. When Haruhi and I had carried the whole cosplay wardrobe containing 
Asahina-san's bodily fragrance to the laundry store, the store owner just kept staring at me and 
Haruhi, and that left a mental scar within me. 


Nakagawa and romance are basically insulated from each other, 



I gulped the remaining cold tea in my tea cup and continued, 

"Even if he had been reincarnated in the wrong body, he's the sort of physical guy who's destined 
to never have a chance at becoming the male protagonist in a shoujo manga. His animal 
horoscope is represented by the black bear, the one with a crescent mark in his chest," 

As I said, I began to envision a figure that matches up with what he looked like in junior high. 

"Really? He sounds like a gentle muscular guy to me." 

Though that was far different from my image, the impression both images made was similar, 
since he does have a well-built physique. Yet my view on him was unlike that of Asahina-san's. 

I really should apologize to him for describing him like that, and before I could destroy all 
evidence of Nakagawa's declaration of love - 1 ought to apologize to him for this as well, but I no 
longer have the strength to do it - Haruhi had already read it out passionately to everyone. After 
hearing it, Koizumi's reaction was different from that of Asahina-san's, 

"Now that was a stunning speech," 

He continued with his ever pretentious smile, 

"The letter generally revealed to the reader a good impression about the author. While it was 
slightly over-idealistic, the fact that he was down-to-earth and grounded in reality was 
commendable enough. Though the author kind of lost himself as a result of a sudden frenzy, 
from his words one could see his passion and ambition. If this Nakagawa-san can really work as 
hard as he says he will, then he is sure to become a remarkable person in the future." 

This psychoanalysis sounds like something from a small-practice clinical psychologist. Can you 
really comment on someone's life just like that? If you can give such an irresponsible critique, 
then so can I. Just who are you trying to con anyway? 

"However..." 

Koizumi threw another smile at me, 

"It requires a great deal of courage to use such language in a confession letter. And you reveal 
yourself to be a generally nice person by agreeing to dictate it. If I were you, my fingers would 
have been trembling too much to be able to write anything," 

What's that supposed to mean? Are you giving me a thinly-veiled criticism? Unlike you, I do 
cherish my friendship. I'll still go through the trouble of playing Cupid even knowing it'll be a 
waste of time. 


I shrugged my shoulders and told Koizumi about what happened earlier, 



"Nagato already gave me her reply long before you came," 

I spoke on behalf of Nagato, who was paying both Haruhi and Koizumi the same proportion of 
attention, 

"She said ten years was too long. Well, that's expected, since I think so as well." 

At this moment, Nagato, who had been silent so far, finally spoke, 

"Let me see." 

She stretched out her tiny fingers. 

Now that surprised me, it seems to have surprised Haruhi as well. 

"I guess you are curious about it," 

Haruhi said as though reading through the expression of the sole member of the Literature Club 
hidden under her bangs, 

"Though Kyon's only responsible for dictating this love letter, you could still take it home as a 
souvenir. After all, this letter is either very ambiguous or very honest, but it's rare to find this sort 
of confession in this day and age," 

"Here you go." 

Koizumi received the wrinkled piece of paper from Haruhi and passed it over to Nagato. 


Nagato lowered her eyes and began reading my handwriting. At times her eyes seems to be 
focused at the same place, as if trying to grasp the meaning of those lines of words. 

"I cannot wait." 

Well, that's to be expected. 

But Nagato then added... 

"But I can see him." 

A sentence which caused everyone in the room to fall silent, she then added another line which 
nearly made my jaw drop, 


I am curious. 



After finishing, she looked at me with her usual gaze. 

It was the gaze I knew - a very determined gaze, as clear as a flawless, handmade glass artifact. 


The spring cleaning ended not quite like a typical spring cleaning. When I suggested taking care 
of the books on the bookshelf, Nagato did not answer with a "yes" or "no", but just stared silently 
at me. Seeing those eyes that barely hid a hard to describe sadness, I just couldn't bear taking the 
books down. The only board game from Koizumi's collection that ended up in the trash can was 
a paper-made backgammon board that came with a magazine and was only played once. 

Asahina-san's personal collection consisted of only her tea leaves anyway. On the other hand, for 
anything that Haruhi brought in, she responded with a resounding, "You can't throw that away!" 

"Now listen up, Kyon. It's a sin to throw away something without ever using them. I would never 
do such a thing. Things that can still be used ought to be reused again and again. As long as their 
quality lasts, I would never throw them away. That's the spirit of environmentalism." 

Over time, this room might gradually become a rubbish dump thanks to this girl. If you really 
care for the environment, then you shouldn't be minding the business of anything that isn't living, 
that's what I think anyway. 

Haruhi tied a triangular handkerchief to her head, handed Nagato and Asahina-san a mop and 
broomstick, and gave me and Koizumi a bucket and cloth and ordered us to clean the windows, 

"This will be our last time visiting this place this year, so we'll have to make this place sparkling 
clean before we can go home. Only then can we ensure that we can come back feeling at ease 
after the New Year," 

After receiving our orders, Koizumi and I began to clean the windows. Time to time I took a 
look at the North High schoolgirl trio, wondering whether they were cleaning the room or just 
spreading dust around. My partner then spoke softly to me, 

"This is just between us. Besides the 'Organization', there are various other organizations that 
have wanted to approach Nagato-san. Because she is now just as important as Suzumiya-san and 
you. Among all the Integrated Data Entities, Nagato-san's existence is particularly unusual, 
especially recently." 

I sat on the window sill and breathed some warm moist air onto my hands, trying to keep away 
the chilling wind which was lowering my body temperature with ease, while continuing to wipe 
the window with the wet cloth. 


What the hell are you talking about? 



It is actually quite easy to play dumb. Recently however, I experienced something with Nagato 
and Asahina-san that had nothing to do with this Koizumi and Haruhi, and the present me exists 
as a result. I could not sit idly by and play dumb with this current situation. 

"I'll think of something," 

I continued, while looking relaxed on the outside. 

This incident was started by me, so I should take care of it myself. 

Koizumi wiped the inside of the window while smiling, 

"Indeed, I'm counting on you this time. Just trying to prepare for the SOS Brigade's end of year 
snow mountain field trip is enough to keep me busy. Besides, you could still mess around with 
Suzumiya-san to reduce stress. Unfortunately, I do not have such a luxury." 

"Then who's the tomcat?" 

Yet, the beautiful smile on Koizumi's face became twisted, 

"Don't you think it's about time that I take off this harmless looking mask and change this image 
that I don't even know when I created it for myself? It is after all very tiring trying to talk 
courteously to a classmate all the time." 

If you feel so tired, then stop it already. I completely didn't feel like controlling his expression. 

"That won't do. My present image fits perfectly with how Suzumiya-san would imagine me to 
be. I am quite an expert in understanding her mental conditions, after all," 

Koizumi sighed in an exaggerated way, 

"On just this basis alone, I feel very envious of Asahina-san. She doesn't even need to pretend, 
she only needs to be herself," 

"Didn't you once say Asahina-san could be making up this appearance of hers as well?" 

"Oh, did you actually believe what I said? If I can win your trust, then my hard work may have 
produced some fruit after all." 

Just as pretentious as ever. It's nearly a year already, and his flamboyant way of speech still 
hasn't changed a bit. Even Nagato's heart has gone through some changes, but you're still as fake 
as ever. Asahina-san doesn't need to change, it is best that she remains the same for now. This is 
because I've met the other Asahina-san, and know that it's a pre-determined fact that she would 
grow both physically and mentally. 


If I were to take on a different appearance... 



Koizumi began to wipe faster, 


"Then it would not be a good omen. Keeping the status-quo is my duty. I'm sure you wouldn't 
want to see me look serious." 

"Yeah, I certainly wouldn't want to. Since you're always grinning idiotically all the time, you're 
ideally suited to stick closely around Haruhi and help her clean up her mess or plan stuff for her. 
I'm really looking forward to the mystery play in the snow mountain this time. That's more than 
enough, right?" 

"That has got to be the best compliment I've heard, please allow me to accept it in its entirety." 

I didn't know whether he meant it or not, since anything that Koizumi said would end up as white 
vapour on the glass. 


Later that night... 

I stared at the sleeping face of Shamisen who had wrapped himself in a bundle on my bed, while 
indulging in a sense of warmth. While wondering deeply where that warm feeling came from, I 
might as well try and figure out where the division between love and lust begins and ends. At 
that moment a thought sparked in my head that cried out That's it!... 

"Kyon-kun! Your phone... it's from the same person as yesterday..." 

My sister once again held the phone receiver and opened the door to my room. 

After handing the receiver which was playing some pop music tune to me, my sister then sat by 
the bed and began pulling Shamisen's whiskers, 

"Shami, Shami- Shami's so furry, sounding so purry~" 

I looked at my sister looking cheerful, then at Shamisen looking unconcerned, then back to my 
sister singing away as I placed the receiver by my ear. Now what was I thinking about before all 
this? 

"Hello?" 

"It's me," 

Nakagawa, my classmate from junior high, couldn't repress the anxiety within himself and asked 
straight away, 



"How'd it go? What did Goddess Nagato say? Please tell me, no matter what her reply is, I'm 
already prepared. Hurry up already, Kyon...!" 


Sounds like a candidate struggling for a parliament seat in an election anxious about the latest 
exit polls. 

"I'm sorry, but things didn't go quite as planned," 

I waved at my sister signaling her to get out while trying to sound sorry, 

"She said she won't wait for you. She cannot imagine, and cannot guarantee a future ten years 
from now... that's her answer," 

My mouth slickly relayed the facts out. "But I can see him." ...I thought deeply how Nakagawa 
would react to this peculiar sentence from Nagato... 

"Is that so?" 

Nakagawa sounded surprisingly calm, 

"I guessed so as well. She couldn't have agreed so easily," 

I continued to wave my hand, humming a mindless song, my sister had no choice, but to 
forcefully pick up a moaning Shamisen and walked out of my room. She probably wanted to 
sleep with him in her room. In about an hour, Shamisen would run with his tail between his legs 
back to my room. It's typical for cats to feel aversion to humans who give them too much care 
and attention. 

After my sister left, I grabbed the phone and began my inquisition, 

"Hey! Is that all you have to say after I have to read such an embarrassing declaration for you?" 
If you knew you were going to fail, then don't ask me to be your messenger! 

"Everything has to go through certain procedures," 

You are least qualified to lecture me when you yourself have skipped through warming up and 
jumped straight into proposing. You have disregarded the basic rules of Shogi, who on earth 
would do a checkmate on their first move anyway? 

"I know, it must be distressing to receive a love confession from a complete stranger." 

If you knew that already you should have kept quiet in the first place. The only people who 
would knowingly step onto a landmine are members of the bomb squad or people seeking 
excitement. 



"But I thought at least Goddess Nagato would become more or less interested in me." 

This was pretty much part of Nakagawa's elaborate crime. Nakagawa was indeed the first person 
that Nagato felt "curious" about. Such was the devastating power of Nakagawa's background. I 
dare guarantee that at least his shamelessness is unrivalled on the whole planet at present. 

"That's why, Kyon, I need to ask you for another favor." 

What is it this time? My kindred spirit was about to be chipped away completely now. 

"Did you know that I joined the American Football Team in high school?" 

Nope, this was my first time hearing it. 

"Really? That's the thing, besides this I don't have any other requests. This time we'll be having a 
friendly match with an American Football team from another boys school. Please do bring 
Goddess Nagato along to watch this match. Of course, I'm in the the starting lineup." 

"When's the match?" 

"Tomorrow." 

Didn't I say this before? Handling just one difficult creature like Haruhi was enough for me. Why 
must their schedule be so tight all the time? 

"There's nothing I could do if Goddess Nagato is not willing to wait ten years for me. Despite 
this, I just hope I can move her with my heroics." 

Such a conclusive deduction. You should at least consider my position. Even if you don't care 
about me, you ought to consider how busy the rest of us are going to be for the end of the year. 

"Is it inconvenient for you?" 

It's not exactly inconvenient for me. I was free as a bird tomorrow, and most probably Nagato 
was as well. So, it's not inconvenient at all. At this rate, I'll really be forced to go and see your 
heroics. 

"That's great, do come. Though it's a friendly match, it is going to be a duel to the death. 
Tomorrow's match would be the annual match between the American Football teams of my 
school and the neighboring boys school. The outcome of the match would affect how we spend 
the New Year. If we lose, we would be greeted by a hellish winter vacation. There will be no rest 
for us even in New Year's Eve or New Year's Day. Everyday besides the regular practice, we'll 
simply get more practice." 



Nakagawa sounded really serious, maybe even tragic. But for me it's all none of my business. 
There was a mountainload of troublesome stuff I needed to take care of before the end of the 
year, and it's only a few days before the snow mountain mansion field trip. 

"Kyon, it's fine if you're busy. All you need to do is just bring Goddess Nagato over. That's all 
that I ask of you. If she refuses, then I would truly give up. But as long as there's a one-to-a- 
thousand chance, I'm willing to take it. If I don't try, a dream would just be a dream," 

Yeah, you sure can talk big. Yet my weakness was my inability to say mean stuff, 

"Alright then." 

I laid on my bed and sighed a breath that somehow never came out, 

"I'll call Nagato later." 

I have a feeling Nagato won't say "no", 

"Where's your high school? If Nagato says OK, then I'll bring her over," 

Maybe I'll bring someone else as well... it's fine if I bring a few more people, right? 

"Thank you, Kyon. I'll remember this debt I owe you," 

Nakagawa then cheerfully told me how to get to his school, and when the kickoff for the match 
would begin, 

"You truly are a natural matchmaker! I'll have to hire you as our host for our wedding! No! I 
should name my first child after you..." 

"Bye," 

After a cool farewell, I hung up the phone. If I let Nakagawa continue with his ramblings, I'm 
afraid holes would be bored out of my head already. 

I placed the home phone receiver on my bed and picked up my cell phone, trying to look for 
Nagato's phone number in my address book. 


And so, the next day came very quickly. 

"You're too slow! How can the person who made the appointment be the last to arrive? Are you 
sure you even want to go!?" 



Haruhi pointed at me with a smile on her face. The location was in front of the familiar station, 
which has become the official meeting point of the SOS Brigade. The other three - Nagato, 
Koizumi and Asahina-san were all waiting for me as well. 

Originally, I had intended to just bring the silent Living Humanoid Interface along, but like I 
said, it just wasn't possible for the two of us to watch the game alone. No matter how tight a net 
is, it will always have holes. If the brigade commander were to find out we went without her, god 
knows what kind of weird punishment she would come up with. Just thinking about it was 
enough to give me shivers. I might as well drag the others along into this, so after calling Nagato, 
I proceeded to call the other three. As to why they all agreed, it could be either they just 
happened to have some free time, or they were just simply curious about this guy who fell in 
love with Nagato at first sight. 

As it was in the middle of the chilly winter, everyone came wearing thick clothing. Asahina-san's 
outfit was worth a mention. Wearing that white artificial fur coat, which could either be furry or 
fluffy, she looked so cute, like an innocent white rabbit. If one were to fall in love at first sight, 
one's target ought to be Asahina-san instead. 

As for Nagato, she simply wore a simple hooded coat over her uniform and placed the hood over 
her head. As expected from the alien created doll, she is able to resist such freezing Earth 
temperatures. 



As it was in the middle of the chiiiy winter, everyone came wearing thick clothing 


Though she was about to see the person who had confessed to her, she still remained 
expressionless. 



"Alright, let's go. I can't wait to see what that guy looks like. Besides, this is my first time seeing 
an American Football game," 

Haruhi wasn't the only one in a good mood as though going to a picnic, Asahina-san was also 
smiling happily, Koizumi maintained his evil looking grin, and I looked unexcited, while our 
main character Nagato carried no expression whatsoever. 

"I checked the bus routes around the park beforehand. It'll take about half an hour to get from 
here to that boy's school by bus. We can get on here," 

Koizumi led the way speaking like a tour guide as my words dwindled. 

It's all fine as long as you're happy, whether it's this guy, Haruhi, or Asahina-san. 

As Koizumi walked along, he gradually came close to my side and whispered meaningfully to 
my ear, 

"To be honest, you sure do have a lot of extraordinary friends." 

I waited for him to continue, yet Koizumi only gave me a grin and went back to his duties as a 
tour guide. 

Nakagawa an extraordinary person? Who knows. To feel as though he's struck by lightning just 
by having one look at Nagato, he must be more extraordinary than the average person in order to 
have such special senses. 

Walking to the bus depot, I just felt something was amiss. 

For some reason, I just couldn't be happy. 


After riding on the privately-operated bus for about half an hour, we walked for a few minutes 
before arriving at that boy's school. The game had already started. 

As I had overslept, we had already missed two buses, so that by the time we arrived it was 
already fifteen minutes since the game had begun. 

It didn't seem like we could enter the school grounds, so we walked along the perimeter, and 
very soon came to a field that was surrounded by a barbed fence. The American Football friendly 
match had already started. 


Wow- Such a big school field, 



I totally agreed with Asahina-san's awestruck comment. Unlike the North High school field, 
which was basically a piece of flat land created from the leveling of a hill, a lot of money seems 
to to have been spent on building this very wide private boy's school sports field. Besides, the 
place where we were standing was about a story higher than the sports field, giving us a great 
vantage point. Apart from the five of us, there were some old geezers that would occasionally 
pass by, and plenty of schoolgirls, which I suspect to be fangirls, squeezing their faces on the 
wire fence, and cheering away in their high pitched voices for each boy's school. 

Listening to the smashing sound of the white and blue jerseys and helmets, the five of us found 
an empty spot where we could stand alongside in a row. 

Nagato remained speechless and didn't give any reaction. 

Still silent... 


I knew absolutely nothing about American Football. I remember after winning our match in the 
baseball tournament, Haruhi showed us the application posters for the American Football and 
soccer tournaments. In the end we entered neither tournament (of course that was after going 
through many trials and tribulations), but just to be safe, I still went and looked up the rules. It 
looked simple, but it was quite complicated. Though it wasn't hard to play, it wasn't a sport in 
which we could just join in if we felt like it. 

In fact, just watching the bullfight beyond the fence proved that my choice not to participate was 
correct. 

The offensive side carried an oval-shaped ball that looked like a rugby ball but not quite. In order 
to progress just one centimeter, the players would have to throw, pass, hold and charge forward 
simultaneously. In order to stop that ball from going one centimeter into their territory, the 
opposing defensive side would have to suddenly attack the opponent player holding the ball, 
struggling to take the ball away from him and obstruct their attacking formation. The sound of 
their protective pads clashing never stopped. 

In general, it was a pretty American sport. 

"Hmm..." 

Haruhi clung to the barbed fence and looked intently at the players who were now clustered into 
a group, 

"So, which one is Nakagawa?" 


The one with the number 82 on his back, the white team, 



I said according to the description Nakagawa told me. Nakagawa was the tight end, in which he's 
positioned at the side of the offensive team's line and was responsible for both blocking the 
defense and catching passes. Although Nakagawa is big, he's also quick and agile. Hmm, he sure 
got the right position. 

"Huh? Looks like the players could switch positions, why's that?" 

"Because the players are divided into the offensive and defensive teams. Nakagawa is in the 
offensive team." 

"They're all wearing helmets, so can they attack using that? How hard can they smash into each 
other? Can they do Judo throws, or can they use any combat techniques?" 

"They can use neither. There's no such allowance, and they can't use their helmets either." 


"Huh~? 


it 


Haruhi looked keenly at the field. There was no American Football team in North High; if there 
was, this girl would definitely try to find a way to sneak in and wreak havoc. Who knows, she 
might just be able to achieve something using her instantaneous movement and explosive energy. 

"This is such an exhilarating and enthusiastic sport. It's very suitable for winter!" 

I listened to Haruhi making her comments while quietly taking a glance at Nagato. She still 
maintained her empty expression, simply following the ball's movement. To me, she didn't seem 
to be really paying any particular attention to Nakagawa, but just simply daydreaming. 

The five of us just stood there and spent some time watching guys from the boy's schools 
smashing into each other. 

"Um... would you like some tea?" 

Asahina-san took a flask and some paper cups out from her bag, 

"I thought it might be cold, so I prepared some warm drinks." 

The smiling Asahina-san was like an angel! I'm so grateful! It really was getting a bit chilly 
standing still while watching the game. 


And so, we sipped on the excellent tea which was brewed by Asahina-san herself, and watched 
the American Footballers playing exuberantly in the middle of the chilly breeze. 



Just as we were immersed in enjoying our tea while watching the game, the second quarter ended 
and the half-time break began. Dressed in white, Nakagawa's team gathered at the opposite end 
of the field. There stood a muscular man that seemed to be the coach yelling loudly at them. 
Though we couldn't see clearly, we could make out someone wearing a number 82 jersey 
amongst the team. 

As for the match itself, if you really want my opinion, I thought it looked pretty dull. There were 
no elegant long passes, or running backs dashing for 30 yards across the length of the pitch. Both 
sides have managed to secure their first downs, and both sides have scored regularly so that the 
score was still pretty much level, with neither side managing to claim a decent advantage over 
their opponent. 

However, I so happen to know someone who hates things that were dull and boring, and her 
name is Suzumiya Haruhi. 

"I don't think there's any meaning to this at all," 

Standing in the same spot, Haruhi began to mumble. She wasn't alone in breathing out white 
vapor, as we were all doing the same. 

"Those players are better off, at least they get to run around," 

Haruhi said while wrapping herself with her arms to stay warm, 

"But it's just too cold for us who are just standing still. Is there a coffee shop nearby?" 

The picnic mood seemed to have been blown away by the chilly wind, since Asahina-san's warm 
tea wasn't served ad infinitum and so we had run out of it quite some time ago now. Even before 
then, half of Asahina-san's trademark Warm Tea of Love had already been cooled down due to 
the cold wind, and so didn't do much to help keep the body warm. Not to mention that today saw 
the arrival of the first wave of a cold-front since winter began. Haruhi wasn't the only one 
shivering due to the cold, both Asahina-san and myself were frozen stiff as well. Nagato was 
probably the only person who didn't feel cold, as she feared neither hot nor cold. 

"As expected, one can't experience any fun if they're just a spectator. Maybe I should join in and 
have some fun, I think I could be in charge of throwing the ball," 

Haruhi's bell-sized eyes were now squinted into thin lines thanks to the body-temperature 
snatching winds, 

"Seriously, I'll freeze to death if I stop moving. Kyon, did you bring any good stuff? Like a 
thermal bag?" 

If I had brought that, you think I wouldn't have used that already? If you must warm yourself up, 
why don't you do a marathon around the school or do some push-ups? It's economical and 
healthy at the same time. 



Hmph! Fine, since I already have a thermal bag here anyway, and it's a large one as well, 


Haruhi slowly wrapped her arms from behind Asahina-san and held her tiny little neck that 
looked so fragile as though it's about to break off. 

"Kyaa! Wah! Wh... what are you doing?" 

That voice of course came from the embarrassed Asahina-san. 

"Mikuru-chan, you sure are warm. And soft as well," 

Burying her chin under the snow-like artificial fur on Asahina-san's coat, Haruhi glued herself to 
the back of Asahina-san and hugged the tiny figure of the upper classman which was well- 
endowed in one area. 

"Just let me be for a while. Hee hee, Kyon, are you feeling envious?" 

Of course I am. If I want to hug something so soft and warm, I might as well hug from the front. 
"Hmm?" 

Haruhi gave a jestful look, 

"Does that mean..." 

She seemed to want to say something, but then shut her mouth, and slowly inhaled softly, 

"You want to do that to Mikuru-chan?" 

I looked at Haruhi's mischievous face, and the wide-eyed face of Asahina-san, who was being 
wrapped tightly in Haruhi's iron grip. I began to think of an appropriate answer, as I was 
becoming preoccupied with endless thoughts, my lifeline arrived from behind, 

"If you guys don't mind, why don't we hug each other?" 

Perhaps wanting to join in our discussion, Koizumi carried a vulgar looking smile and gave his 
gross suggestion. 

"Though running in a marathon is fine, I really don't mind having two guys hugging each other 
just to stay warm, you know." 

But I do. I've said it many times already, I'm not interested in "the other side". Koizumi, all you 
needed to do is just quietly play your part as the commentator for the game. This is just between 
me, Nagato and Nakagawa. Your presence here is more or less irrelevant. I might as well say 
this, but Haruhi and Asahina-san's presence too was irrelevant. 



I took a glance at the other side, 

"That's not important..." 

The important person present - Nagato - remained silent as ever, and simply looked at the field 
intently. She didn't even move a muscle. It felt as though her eyes were going after Nakagawa, 
but even I wasn't sure whether her gaze was focused on him. 

On the other hand, Nakagawa was the same. As part of the offensive team, whether he was active 
on the field or resting on the sidelines, he never once looked over to this side. I went through so 
much trouble to bring Nagato here, and he ignores us completely. Even now, during the half-time 
intermission, he gathered with the other players in a circle discussing strategy. Has his passion 
for this game and his desire to win surpassed his pursuit of love? 

Or maybe he's doing this on purpose? If what Nakagawa said was true, if he even takes one 
glance at Nagato, then he would quickly lose himself. I still think he was exaggerating things, 
but if he's telling the truth, then it'll definitely be bad for his game. 

"Ah, whatever," 

I mumbled and looked at the back of Nagato's head, whose short hair fluttered in the wind. 

I guess I'll wait till after this match when Nakagawa comes out of his school for him to meet 
Nagato. At this rate, if the second half goes smoothly and Nakagawa's team wins, then he'll be 
free as a bird. 

Yesterday, Nagato said "I can see him," so it won't be bothersome to arrange for them to meet. 
Although I didn't want them to meet at all, I also didn't want to be a heartless person who would 
mercilessly deny other people's hopes and requests. This way I could at least ensure my ears can 
get some peace. 

However...! 

Unfortunately, things never quite go as one would expect. It was less than five minutes into the 
third quarter after the whistle signaling the resumption of the match when... 


Nakagawa was hauled off in an ambulance. 


Allow me to describe how that fellow managed to get himself wounded. Here is what happened: 



The second half began with the opponent's turn on the offensive. Their running back had only 
managed to gain 20 yards and lost possession. Now it was Nakagawa's team's turn to go on the 
offensive. 


Nakagawa was positioned on the edge near the scrimmage line which was tightly watched by 
both sides. Standing behind the white team's center, their quarterback seems to be making some 
signals to his teammates. Abruptly, Nakagawa moved from the front lines and towards the side, 
while at the same moment, carrying the ball, the quarterback retreated two to three steps. The 
opponent's defensive guards, cornerbacks and linebackers instantly charged forward like wild 
beasts. 

Nakagawa sped up his pacing and cut into the hash marks, spun around and made a fake as 
though trying to receive a pass. The quarterback then nimbly threw the ball past Nakagawa 
toward the wide receiver, who was further downfield. 

"Ah." 

I wasn't sure whether it was Haruhi or Asahina-san that made that cry. 

Like a spinning bullet, the ball didn't quite follow its intended trajectory. One of the opposition 
linebackers leapt forward, but could not quite intercept it. A turnover was barely avoided as the 
ball hit through his fingertips, but now the ball had changed course after being slowed down 
forcefully, falling toward a position no one had predicted. 

It was in this moment ! 

I saw Nagato, the near immobile Buddhist statue, begin to make her move. 


She placed her fingers on the edge of her hood and pulled it over, covering her face. But the 
hood did not cover her mouth, and so the sight of her lips chanting rapidly did not escape my 
attention. 


Nagato was definitely chanting something very quickly. 

I only saw this from the corner of my eye, as most of my attention was focused on the intense 
battle on the field. 

"Whoa!" 

I instinctively leaned forward, my eyes widening. 



This was because I noticed the ball had changed direction, and it was falling toward the spot that 
Nakagawa was charging towards at an amazing pace. At the center of my gaze, Nakagawa made 
a dazzling leap, grabbed hold of the ball in mid air, and then attempted to make a safe landing... 

...and failed. 

At the same time as Nakagawa had leapt up, the opposing cornerback covering him also made a 
superb leap. He had only one target, and that was the ball which everyone on the pitch see as 
second only to their lives. 

Like a long jump athlete, that cornerback jumped into the air after running for some distance, just 
as Nakagawa was reaching for the ball. As humans do not possess wings, they could not move 
around the air as freely as they might wish, and so after the cornerback jumped as strongly as he 
could, he subsequently went into free fall, crashing right into Nakagawa. The kinetic energy 
instantly went down to zero. Seeing how both players were flung backwards, one can imagine 
how huge the impact was. 

The opposing cornerback spun 90 degrees and fell to the field on his back; the defenseless 
Nakagawa, however, spun forward beautifully and landed on his head. 

"Wah?" 

This exclamation came from Asahina-san who looked stunned. 

I too gave a cry, as Nakagawa had landed in the worst possible way for a human being. Just like 
the victims of the Tombstone Piledriver, or the Inugami Clan, he landed with his head first. 
However, for the wrestler, there was a wrestling platform, for the victim of the Inugami Clan, he 
at least landed in a swamp, but for Nakagawa, the cold and hard ground received him. 

(Yokomizo Seishi - Japanese detective fiction writer, best known for his Kindaichi Kosuke 
series. The later manga series, Kindaichi Case Files, stars Kindaichi Hajime, the grandson of 
Kosuke. In one of the Kindaichi Kosuke stories, Inugami Clan (Only Japanese wiki available) - 
The victim was found with his head buried in the swamp.) 

The sound which I dreaded hearing came to our ears a beat after the image was transmitted to our 
eyes. 

"Thud!" 

It was good that he was wearing a helmet, otherwise judging from that loud thudding noise, I can 
bet that his skull would certainly be shattered. 

The referee blew his whistle and stopped the match. Nakagawa lay there motionless. Nakagawa 
grabbed the ball tightly as though he was grabbing hold of some precious memento from his 
family and stopped moving... or rather, he didn't even move a single inch. The atmosphere was 
so tense it wasn't even funny. 



Is he alright? 


Haruhi asked with a stern look with her face over the fence. 

"Wah — 

As though watching a gory scene from a horror movie, Asahina-san hid behind Haruhi's 
shoulder, 

"Ah, here comes the stretcher," 

She said in a worrying voice. 

Surrounded by his teammates, Nakagawa was now carried up the emergency stretcher and 
brought away from the field. Despite this, his fingers still clung tightly onto the ball, his never- 
say-die attitude sure was admirable. If this battle casualty did not inspire Nakagawa's teammates 
to victory, then I don't believe anything else would. 

Lying on the stretcher with his helmet taken off, Nakagawa's situation wasn't as bad as expected. 
He did respond to the cries from around him, and he nodded to every question that was asked. 
Though he tried to sit up but fell down again, at least he was still breathing. 

"I guess it was a minor concussion," 

Koizumi attempts to explain the situation, 

"I guess we don't have to worry too much, as this sort of accident is common in this kind of 
sport." 

You're not a doctor, and you're standing so far away, so don't act like a damn expert. It would be 
good if you were correct, but the head is very fragile, you know. The coach and consultant 
teacher seemed just as concerned as I was. A few moments later, the siren of the ambulance 
could be heard approaching. 

"Your friend sure is unlucky," 

Haruhi said with a sigh, 

"He wanted to make an impression in front of Yuki but instead got himself injured. I guess he 
was too eager that he didn't expect things to go wrong." 

She seemed rather sympathetic to Nakagawa. Does she really want to arrange for Nakagawa and 
Nagato to be together? Then how come you were so quick to refuse the Computer Research 
Group President's request to borrow Nagato? 

After hearing me say that, Haruhi replied, 



"Kyon, though I personally think love is a kind of disease, I'm not the sort to get in the way of 
people's pursuit of romance just for the fun of it. After all, everyone's view of happiness is their 
own," 

I wonder if Nagato should be considered lucky to be loved by Nakagawa? 

"Though I may think a person is extremely unlucky, as long as that person thinks she is happy, 
then she must be happy," 

I shrugged my shoulders and allowed Haruhi's romance philosophy in my left ear and out of my 
right. I'm sorry, if Asahina-san's boyfriend turns out to be an absolute moron, even if Asahina- 
san's happy with it, I'm not sure I would be able to wish them the best of luck. In fact, I might 
even try to stop their relationship from developing any further. But then, I'm sure no one would 
blame me. 

"I hope your friend's all right," 

Asahina-san said and placed her palms together in front of her fur coat. Her prayers looked 
genuine and were hardly pretentious. That's the sort of nice person she is. With Asahina-san's 
prayers, even if one were to suffer from bone fractures all over, he would definitely be healed in 
less than thirty minutes, so Nakagawa's going to be fine. 

Finally, the paramedics arrived and placed Nakagawa into the ambulance. They were so careful 
in handling the stretcher, it's as though they were carrying a box marked "Fragile - Handle with 
Care". 

After placing Nakagawa inside the ambulance and shutting the doors, the sirens begin to sound 
once again. The ambulance drove off, with the red beacon on top slowly fading into the distance. 

Nagato, who was five times more silent than usual today, stared at the departing ambulance with 
her obsidian-like eyes, as though trying to prove the existence of Redshift with her naked eyes. 


So, now what? 

Nakagawa's show of affection for Nagato has been called off due to the unexpected withdrawal 
of its main star, and we have lost any interest in watching the resumed game all the way to the 
end anymore. As the weather was freezing, and the original objective was now non-existent, 
there was no longer any reason for us to remain here any longer, since our intended target had 
now been sent to the hospital. 


We can go to the hospital, too, 



Haruhi made the suggestion, 


"If our intended target had gone to the hospital, if we follow him, we can continue this love 
story. After all, it would make perfect sense for Yuki to be worried and come pay him a visit. 
Your friend would be grateful as well. Besides, there's heating inside the hospital, right? So what 
do you think of this idea?" 

To be honest, Haruhi's instant idea wasn't bad at all, but I didn't feel like going back to the 
hospital again. Ever since I met Haruhi, my psychological scars have been increasing. 

"Don't you care about your friend? Let me tell you this, when you were carried off in the 
ambulance, I was worried to death. But that's only because we're friends," 

Haruhi forcefully pulled my hand and said roughly, 

"Besides, it was you who started all this trouble this time," 

Walking away from the field with me, Haruhi then stopped again, 

"Oh yeah, which hospital did that ambulance go to?" 

How the hell should I know? 

"Let me check," 

Raising his hand, Koizumi smiled and accepted this task, 

"Please wait for a while, it'll take a minute or so," 

After turning his back to us and walking for a few steps, Koizumi pushed a few buttons on his 
phone and spoke softly, then listened to what the other side said. About a minute later, he hung 
up and walked towards us with a smile, 

"I found out which hospital he was sent to," 

I have no idea which number he called to inquire, but I was pretty sure it wasn't 1 19. 

"It's a hospital we're all very familiar with. I'm sure you all know how to get there without me 
saying," 

A wave of rememberance came over me, my mind instantly thought of the monotonous dialog, 
the red apples, and the cheerful smile Koizumi had given me. 

"Yes, it's that one. The general hospital which you stayed in before," 



The one whose warden happens to be a friend of your uncle's? I stared at Koizumi. This has got 
to be a coincidence, otherwise... 

"It's a coincidence," 

Noticing my alligator eyes, he began to giggle, 

"No, it's true, it really is a coincidence. I was surprised as well, honest." 

You don't have to smile so cheerfully. This doesn't change the fact that I still don't trust you. 

"Then, let's all head to that hospital! Might as well call a taxi! Since there are five of us, if we 
divide it between ourselves, the fare ought to be cheap," 

Haruhi quickly began to take charge of the situation. 

"Suzumiya-san, I think it's about time we have a meeting for our coming field trip to the snow 
mountain. These two can take care of the visit, while you, Asahina-san and myself would stay 
behind to prepare for the trip, how about that? Because we have yet to sort out the departure date, 
what luggage to bring and other minor details. We won't have much time if we don't take care of 
these soon." 

But after hearing Koizumi's suggestion, Haruhi remained hesitant, 

"Huh? Really?" 

"Yes," 

Koizumi continued his persuasion, 

"It's almost New Year's Eve. Organizing a New Year's activity in the snow mountain mansion is 
a major event. I had wanted to gather the SOS Brigade to meet for the winter field trip today, but 
I didn't expect this extra event in our itinerary," 

Well, sorry about that. 

"Oh no, I don't mean to blame you at all. On the contrary, I should be the one who's apologizing. 
I'll leave Nagato-san in your hands, so please hurry up and go meet with Nakagawa-san in the 
hospital. As to what to do there, I'll let you decide the best course of action. I would wait at the 
usual coffee shop with Suzumiya-san and Asahina-san, you can come there after the visit... Is 
that fine with you, Suzumiya-san?" 

Haruhi remained silent for a while and then said with a frown, 

"Hmm, you're right. I wouldn't be much help going to the hospital. And Kyon's friend is only 
interested in Yuki anyway," 



She looked extremely reluctant, 

"Alright, Kyon, you can go visit your friend with Yuki. If he could write such a love letter, he 
would probably be dancing like wild after looking at Yuki for five seconds." 

After that, Haruhi pointed at me and said with a pouting look, 

"But remember to report everything in detail to me afterwards! You hear?" 


And so, we all took a bus back to our gathering spot. From there, we split into two parties. 
Nagato and I would ride another bus to the private hospital, while the remaining three would 
continue to be regular customers of the nearby coffee shop. 

Nagato never turned her head around once as we parted ways, but I suddenly had an urge to look 
back. I saw Haruhi and the others also turning around and looking at us, and Haruhi was also 
making some sign language with her arms as they went further and further. I didn't delve into 
what she was implying with that strange body language as I turned back to look at my 
companion, who had buried herself inside her thick hooded coat. 

How should I put this... 

To put it simply, the inquiries I had were now wrapped tightly around my heart like barnacles. 
The first question concerns Nakagawa, who had fallen in love with Nagato at first sight. Why 
was it that he happened to get injured in the game? The second was in regard to what Koizumi 
had said to me back at the gathering spot, "You sure do have a lot of extraordinary friends". I 
was particularly bothered by that word "extraordinary". I would readily admit that I have no 
friends that possess any weird characteristics; if there were any, then it would have to be 
Koizumi. Just what did he mean when he said Nakagawa was "extraordinary"? 

Another point that cannot be ignored was the mysterious incantation Nagato made. Nakagawa's 
accident happened just after Nagato had recited her spell. Even a dull person, as long as he has 
memory of such events, would be able to link these two together. As someone who could make a 
stand-in batter like me make three consecutive home runs, Nagato was capable of doing such a 
thing. 


Nagato buried her face within the hood of her coat and said nothing, but very soon the answer 
would be revealed. 



Upon inquiring at reception, we learned that Nakagawa had completed his treatment and had 
been transferred to his ward. Though his injury was minor, he still needed to be hospitalized for 
further observation. I walked with Nagato, who followed me like a ghost possessing its host, and 
entered the corridor leading towards the ward that the receptionist had indicated. 

After a few steps, we had arrived before the ward. Nakagawa was staying in a six-person room. 

"Nakagawa, you okay?" 

"Hey Kyon!" 

My former classmate wore a light blue hospital gown and was lying on the bed. Nakagawa's face 
looked vaguely familiar to me; he still has his crew cut. He sat up straight like a panda who just 
woke up from his nap. 

"You came just in time, I just finished my treatment. The doctor said I still need to stay for one 
night just to make sure. I probably injured my neck when I fell, that was why I felt like throwing 
up. Fortunately the doctor said it was just a minor concussion. I gave the coach a call as well, 
telling him I would be out by tomorrow, so they don't need to come and see me..." 

As he seems immersed in talking non-stop, he suddenly noticed the ghost that was standing 
behind me, and his eyes widened as a result, 

"I, is that... c, could it possibly be..." 

It's not possibly, it's definitely, 

"This is Nagato. Nagato Yuki. I thought it'd cheer you up, so I brought her along." 

"Ahhhh.J" 

"I'm Nakagawa!" 

He roared as he introduced himself, 

"Naka as in Nakahara Chuya, and Gawa as in Kawamura (note: the "k" in kawa becomes 
hardened to a "g" when preceded with another word in front so it's not a typo)! My name is 
Nakagawa! I wish to be friends with you!" 

He said reverentially like a daimyo meeting his shogun for the first time. 


Nagato Yuki. 



Without any cheerfulness in her voice, she plainly reported her name. She didn't take off her 
hooded coat, she even kept her hood on her head. I couldn't take it any longer, so I flicked that 
hood that was covering her face over to her back. After coming all the way to see him, it'd be a 
pity if she left without even showing her face. 

Nagato remained silent, but simply stared at Nakagawa, who was looking stunned. After about 
ten seconds, 

"Huh? ...Ah~" 

Nakagawa was the first to change his expression, he gave a surprised look, 

"You're... Nagato-san, right?" 

"Yes." Nagato replied. 

"Were you the one that Kyon walked with early in spring this year...?" 

"Correct." 

"The one that often goes to the supermarket before the station...?" 

"Correct." 

"Really... is that so..." 

Nakagawa's face became sullen. I would have thought he would cry tears of joy or would be so 
moved that he would faint, but it was neither. Instead the atmosphere was now becoming 
unexpectedly stiff. 

Nagato was now looking at Nakagawa with eyes that seemed to be observing the immobile 
flatfish in an aquarium; at the same time I also noticed that Nakagawa was looking at Nagato as 
though staring at a manhole cover on the road. 

These two individuals had gotten into a staring battle all of a sudden. Very soon, one of them 
showed signs of frailty. As expected, Nakagawa was the first to move his eyes away. 

"...Kyon," 

Though Nakagawa spoke softly, I guess the other patients in the ward could all hear him clearly, 
but only I could see him moving his fingers discreetly, gesturing me to come over to him. 

"What is it?" 


There's something... er, I need to talk about it with you alone. So... could you please... ask... 



Seeing as how he kept looking at Nagato, I understood at once. He wanted to tell me something, 
but didn't want Nagato to hear it. 

I turned towards Nagato... 

"Is that so?" 

There was no way the two of them could be telepathically linked, yet Nagato gracefully turned, 
walking out of the ward at the pace of a luggage conveyor belt. 

Once the door was shut, Nakagawa breathed a sigh of relief, 

"That girl... is that really Nagato-san? Is that her?" 

I don't think I've had the fortune to encounter Nagato's imposter yet. Though I've seen her 
behaving in a completely different way before, but that's all in the past now. 

"You should be happy," I said, "Your future bride ten years from now has come to see you, can't 
you at least pretend to be moved?" 

"Umm... hmmmm," 

Nakagawa mumbled and nodded his head, 

"That's Nagato-san... alright. No doubt about it. That was neither a twin sister nor a 
doppelganger." 

What the hell are you trying to say? Don't go telling me that she isn't Nagato just because she 
isn't wearing glasses. Haven't you seen Nagato recently yourself? Nagato had already heeded my 
request back then and stopped wearing glasses since. I'm not accepting any lame excuse like you 
having a fetish for glasses and so can't accept Nagato now, I'm telling you. 

"No, that's not it!" 

Nakagawa lifted his head, his face looked troubled, 

"I don't know how to say this... please let me think, Kyon. I'm sorry..." 

Nakagawa then sat on the bed and began groaning. Has he bumped his brains out after all? His 
reaction was totally unexpected. There was no point talking to him. No matter what I said, he 
would just reply with an "hmm", as though trying to think seriously on something. In the end, he 
even clutched his head as though having a headache. I didn't have the patience to play with him 
forever, so I decided to leave the ward, 


"Nakagawa, I'll have to ask you for the details later. I can't give her a reasonable reply like 
this..." 



My report for Haruhi would have to wait as well. If I told her what had happened, she would 
simply glare at me. 

Exiting the ward, I found Nagato leaning against the wall waiting for me. Her dark bead-like 
eyes turned towards me, and then turned to the floor. 





Exiting the ward, I found Nagato leaning against the wall waiting for me. 

"Let's go," 

Nodding her head slightly, Nagato resumed her role as my personal ghost and obediently walked 
behind me. 

Just what was going on? 

Like a tiger beetle, I walked ahead of Nagato, who remained silent all along, and hurried towards 
the bus stop. 


The scene that followed at the coffee shop was a scene most of you are familiar with. Haruhi laid 
out her plans for the winter vacation and chattered away, Koizumi nodded with mechanical 



efficiency, Asahina-san slowly sipped her Darjeeling tea, I wore the look of being at a loss on 
what to do, while Nagato played her role of the silent listener without any opinions from 
beginning to end. 

The bill was evenly divided amongst us in the end, and so today's SOS Brigade activity had 
come to a conclusion. When I arrived home, what awaited me was... 

"Kyon-kun! You came back just in time, you've got a phone call..." 

My sister held out the cordless phone in one hand, while she carried Shamisen with her other arm 
and smiled at me. I received both the phone and Shamisen and proceeded to enter my room. 

As expected, that call was from Nakagawa. 


"I really don't know how to say this..." 

For everyone's information, this call was made from the hospital's pay-phone. Nakagawa's voice 
indeed revealed something that seemed hard to say, 

"Can you please relay a message, that I would like to cancel my wedding appointment?" 

He sounded like one of those medium to small-sized corporate presidents begging for a 
postponement in payment of their ever increasing debts. 

"Care to tell me why?" 

While I sounded like a creditor in a very bad mood towards a hapless business owner, 

"You went to describe your dream of living together as a happy couple all on your own, and now 
you're saying you want to give up after just one day? Then what was the meaning of all this 
yearning for these past few months? You're saying you've changed your mind after meeting 
Nagato? If you don't give me a very good reason, you can forget about me relaying the message 
for you." 

"I'm sorry. I'm not even sure I understand myself..." 

Nakagawa's apology seemed sincere... 

"When she rushed to the hospital to see me, I was very happy and grateful that she did. But 
unlike before, Nagato-san this time didn't have those illuminated rings or aura about her. She just 
seemed like a normal girl one would find anywhere in the streets. No, she was a normal girl no 
matter how I looked at her. As to why she became like that, even I find it hard to explain." 



My mind came up with Nagato making an expression that says, life is unpredictable. 


"Kyon, since then I've been thinking seriously, and have finally come to a conclusion. I was 
deeply in love with Nagato-san in the past, but now I don't feel any affection towards her. That 
means I must have got it wrong in the first place." 

What do you mean you got it wrong? 

"I made a mistake. It wasn't love at first sight. Now that I think about it, there's no such thing as 
love at first sight. And yet I've been mistaken, thinking that's what my feeling was." 

Okay. Then what were your claims of having seen Nagato engulfed in a white angelic halo, and 
going through a feeling of being struck by lightning all about? How do you explain the amazing 
fact that you would be frozen stiff at the sight of Nagato? 

"I really don't know," 

Nakagawa's voice sounded so apologetic that he sounds as though he was begging for the 
weather forecast for the next hundred years, 

"I haven't got a clue. The only explanation I can think of is that it has all been a hallucination..." 
"Oh really?" 

Though I sounded rude, I didn't intend to blame Nakagawa at all. In fact, I wasn't surprised. 
Because things didn't go beyond my expectations. When I first heard Nakagawa rave about his 
delusions, I had already guessed what this was all about. 

"Alright, Nakagawa. I'll relay the message for Nagato. I'm sure she wouldn't be too disappointed, 
since she never really gave a thought to you in the first place. She'll probably forget about you in 
an instant." 

I could hear a breath of relief through the phone. 

"Really? If that's true, then thank goodness. Otherwise I really wouldn't know how to apologize 
to her. My nerves must have gone haywire back then." 

That has to be it. There's no doubt about it, Nakagawa's nerves weren't functioning properly at all 
back then. But they're all back to normal now. Someone must have cast a restoration spell on 
him, perhaps? 

I then had a short chat with Nakagawa, until his phone card was running out of credit, and we 
said goodbye. It was good that way, as we may yet meet again. 

After hanging up, I quickly called another number, 



"Are you free to come out now?" 

I arranged a time and location for the person on the other side of the phone, then picked up my 
scarf and coat. Shamisen, who was lying sprawled out on my coat, got rolled off onto the carpet 
where he looked at me with a scowl. 

After a busy day yesterday, today, which was just as hectic, was soon coming to an end. 


I pedaled on my bike and headed towards that holy ground for peculiar people, the park in front 
of the station near Nagato's apartment complex. Nagato had called me out to meet her there back 
in the beginning of May. When I traveled with Asahina-san back in time to Tanabata three years 
ago, I also woke up in that place. And recently, when I went back in time for the second time, I 
was sitting right there with the grown-up version of Asahina-san. All these past memories came 
flooding back to my head. 

I rode near the entrance of the park and parked my bike there, and then walked towards the park. 

Sitting on the park bench full of memories waiting for me was a person wrapped in a hooded 
coat like one of those Jawas. Under the illumination of the street lamp, she looked as though she 
had emerged from the darkness itself. 

"Nagato," 

I said to the little figure that was looking at me, 

"Sorry for calling you out all of a sudden. It's just like what I told you over the phone, 
Nakagawa's changed his mind." 

Nagato stood up naturally and nodded her head slightly, she then said, 

"I see." 

I gazed at Nagato's pitch black eyes, 

"Isn't it time you tell the whole truth now?" 

As I came rushing over by bike in the fastest speed possible, my body still felt warm, so I could 
still stand like this in the middle of a chilly night for a little longer, 


"I can understand Nakagawa falling in love with you at first sight, since everyone has their 
preferences. But the way he changed his mind today was just too unnatural. Not to mention after 



today's game... after Nakagawa got injured and was sent to hospital, all the affection he had for 
you had disappeared, so I'm guessing that his injury was not a coincidence," 


"Were you pulling any strings? I know you did something during the match. It was you who let 
Nakagawa get injured, right?" 

"Yes." 

After replying swiftly, Nagato lifted her head to face me, and then said, 

"The one whom he had fallen for was not me." 

Her tone was so plain it sounds like she's reciting an essay, 

"What he had seen was not me, but the Integrated Data Sentient Entity instead." 

I silently listened, while Nagato continued in the same expressionless tone, 

"He had the extra-sensory ability to interact with the Integrated Data Sentient Entity using me as 
an interface." 

I could feel the cold wind biting my ears. 

"However, he did not understand what he had just seen. Humans are organic lifeforms after all, 
and are thus on a totally different recognition level from the Integrated Data Sentient Entity." 

..."A glowing aura behind her back... as holy and pure as the heavens shining upon the earth..." 
That was what Nakagawa had said. 

Nagato continued her explanation without showing any emotions, 

"He must have seen the culmination of aeons of knowledge that has transcended time and space. 
Even though the data that he had extracted from the interface was very insignificant, it was 
enough to overwhelm him." 

And that was why he got it wrong... right? I looked at Nagato's messy hair and sighed. The 
"inner character" that Nakagawa felt was merely just a part of the Integrated Data Sentient 
Entity. While I didn't completely understand it, Nagato's boss is a powerful existence that 
possesses an enormous history and knowledge well beyond the grasp of humanity. It now 
became clear why Nakagawa, who had accidentally stumbled upon this knowledge, became so 
disoriented. It's just like unwittingly opening an attachment that carries a malicious program, 
eventually your computer would be hijacked and there is nothing you can do about it. 

"So that's why Nakagawa would mistakenly think that he had fallen in love?" 



Correct. 


"So... you decided to amend his feelings during the football game?" 

In place of a spoken reply, the messy haired bowl head nodded and then said, 

"I analyzed the powers that he possesses, and then had them deleted." 

Nagato continued, 

"The capacity of a human brain is too small to connect with the Integrated Data Sentient Entity. I 
foresaw that he would continue to behave in such a way if left unattended." 

This I understood. Putting aside Nakagawa's reaction of going into a trance upon seeing Nagato, 
just the fact that he has waited for nearly half a year before telling me his plans for the next ten 
years was proof that his brain has been short circuited. If he was allowed to go on like that, who 
knows how crazy he would get. I shuddered just thinking about it. 

Yet, there was something else I didn't understand. 

"Why did Nakagawa have such powers? Was he born with the ability to see the Integrated Data 
Sentient Entity through you?" 

"He probably began possessing such powers three years ago." 

Three years ago again? The reason Nagato, Asahina-san and Koizumi are here was all because of 
something that happened three years ago. Or to be precise, something Haruhi caused to happen... 

At this point, I realized one thing. 

The extra-sensory ability that Nagato had mentioned. If that's what it was... I get it now. Who 
knows, Nakagawa could probably be a back-up esper to Koizumi. In spring three years ago, 
Haruhi indeed did something. She caused a temporal faultline to appear, created a data 
explosion, and gave birth to espers around the world. If that's the case, then it wouldn't be 
surprising if Nakagawa were to replace Koizumi as the esper by her side. Koizumi's enigmatic 
sentence now made perfect sense. Whether he already knew, or just happened to find out about it 
these past two days, that fellow must have realized Nakagawa possessed some semi-esper 
powers. That was why he implied that I had a lot of "extraordinary" friends. 

"It is possible." Nagato said. 

Or it could be... I felt a shiver that had nothing to do with cold weather. Not everything can be 
traced back to that single incident three years ago. Haruhi might still have the ability to influence 
other people in a supernatural way even now. Just like allowing the cherry blossoms to bloom in 
autumn, turning all the pigeons' feathers in the shrine to white overnight. She's still spreading her 
influence to the people around her to this day. 



It 


II 


Nagato stood there motionless without answering me, or maybe she has said everything she 
wanted to say and began to walk off. She slowly went past me, who was also standing 
motionless, and began to go back into the darkness, like a wandering ghost about to ascend into 
the realm beyond... 

"Wait, can I ask you just one more question?" 

Nagato's silhouette gave me an impression that was hard to describe, I instinctively called and 
stopped her. 

Claiming to fall in love with Nagato at first sight, and coming up with an extremely 
embarrassing love letter, Nakagawa was, according to my knowledge, the first person to declare 
his love for Nagato. After hearing me recite his wedding proposal yesterday, what was going on 
in her mind? Someone came to declare his sincere love for you, telling you "I love you, let's 
make a happy future together", but after a whole day, it turns out that he was just mistaken. Just 
how did you feel about that? 

The questions in my heart finally formed into words and came out of my mouth, 

"Don't you find it a pity?" 

In the past few months since we met, I've shared many memories with Nagato. Though I've also 
shared memories with Haruhi, Asahina-san and Koizumi, I found that I've experienced more 
events with Nagato in particular. In fact, every situation seems to involve her. I might as well 
mention this, she's probably the only person to cause the bell within me to shake the most 
vigorously. No matter what happens, Haruhi would always find a way out, Asahina-san only 
needs to remain as herself, while Koizumi can go to hell for all I care, but... 

I finally couldn't resist asking a question which I've been dying to ask, 

"When you realized that his confession was all just a misunderstanding, did you feel any pity 
about it?" 


Nagato stopped, and sort of turned her face towards me. A sudden wind blew by and covered 
Nagato's face with her hair. 

The night wind was so cold as though it could slice off my ears. After waiting for a while, a tiny 
voice travelled through the wind and into my ears, 


...A little bit. 



( Charmed at First Sight LOVER End) 


Where did the Cat Go? 

Where did the Cat Go? 


The end of the year is creeping up on us in the middle of the winter break. Originally we 
expected to be looking forward to Koizumi and his merry men's detective game production; 
however on the very day that we had arrived at Tsuruya-san's villa, we found ourselves lost 
inside that strange house that was seemingly a mere daydream. This event led to a state of 
emergency with Nagato having fainted on the ski slopes and Haruhi screaming and yelling over 
it. 

Fortunately Nagato's health has returned after coming back to normal space. No matter how I put 
it, this has been one very hectic day. The date on the calendar is still the thirtieth of December, a 
day before New Year's Eve. 

Come tomorrow - which is New Year's Eve... 

The project, long in planning, is going on as planned. That project is simply the surprise activity 
that busybody Koizumi will host, really unnecessary: the winter version of that messed up 
detective game. The only difference compared to the last game is that we know from the 
beginning that this is merely a game and that it is at the heart of the whole co-ed experience. As 
for the disaster on the snow mountain, that mirage of a mansion, the fake all-nude Asahina-san, 
some principle of Mr. Euler and Nagato out cold with a high fever, this was all just an 
unanticipated prelude. That incident wasn't Haruhi's style, and I really want to have a word with 
the nameless perpetrator. Although Nagato fell, at least Koizumi and I — it is debatable as to 
whether or not Asahina-san (small) contributed at all — had managed to somehow get us 
through the maze. 

Right now in this villa, we also have Tsuruya-san, who doesn't seem to be the average person, as 
well as Koizumi's associates, which would become an even more unnatural circumstance should 
I overlook them. 

Finally, in a very SOS Brigade-esque... no, I should say very Haruhi-esque fashion, we can 
finally proceed ahead as planned with the extra-curricular activities. 


Concern about how this year would end lingers on in my head and won't go away. It seems that 
only I have that question, so I better keep my mouth shut as I'm in the minority. 


Let us verify the cast for this act: there is myself, Haruhi, Nagato, Asahina-san, Koizumi, 
Tsuruya-san, my sister, Shamisen, Mori-san, Arakawa-san, as well as Tamaru Keiichi-san, and 
his brother Yutaka-san. 

Haruhi proposed that the sequel to the Mystery Tour should begin as soon as possible. 


On New Year's Eve, after finishing the breakfast prepared by Mori-san and Arakawa-san, we 
start by gathering on a raised public meeting space on the ground floor of Tsuruya-san's estate. 
This area is as large as at least 20 tatamis and all covered with cypress wood flooring, similar to 
a wooden stage made for speech-making or to put on a drama. There are eight sunken hearths 
that comfortably seat eight individuals each. Of course, the floor also has heating and a warm 
breeze comes from an efficient electric heater, all of which keeps people in the public area and 
the walkway really cozy. 

Looking out of the window, the sky above the ski slopes is about as bright as the kind of uniform 
blue you get when someone sprays blue paint over a polyester board, but today skiing is 
prohibited. 

"I am still a bit worried about Yuki, so let's stay indoors today." 

With that, Haruhi proclaims the skiing ban. Nagato has been using her expressionless look to try 
and convince Haruhi, who wants to drag her off to see a doctor, that 'I am all right', but there is 
no one that can reverse the decision made by our own chief. 

"Hear this! No outing at least for today! Before I am sure that you have fully recovered, any 
contact sport or anything that might get adrenaline pumping are not for you, okay?" 

Nagato looks at the eyes of Haruhi, which are as wide as the moon, and then turns her vision 
towards the rest of us lined up on the side. It is almost as if she is asking 'I am fine with this, but 
how about you?' 

It seems that there is more than one person that shares Haruhi's sentiment. 

"I wholeheartedly agree. We would be worried if we were to leave Nagato-san aside while the 
rest of us go out. All for one and one for all... it might make for quite a tale," 

Koizumi crisply responds. The non-full members, being my sister and Tsuruya-san, both readily 
agree. I don't know why it is that I can't be sure of Shamisen's opinion, who my sister is carrying 
right now, but he didn't even make a sound, so I assume he has no comment. 



"Why don't we push the schedule ahead then?" Koizumi's vision heads out of the window. "It's 
fine to have the detective game, originally set to start this evening and end at midnight, start 
early." 

Can we begin now? Please do this before Haruhi's burning eyes, glimmering in anticipation, start 
to roast my nerve cells. 

"I apologize, but it is best to wait until snow starts to drift again. The weather forecast suggests 
that it will snow in the afternoon so please wait until then." 

I had only dragged that ridiculously heavy Shamisen along because you're the one who said that 
a cat is required. Now you say that you need to have it snowing. What is this? If you want snow, 
there's a pile of the stuff outside. 

"I need a condition of non-stop snowfall. Ahh, I cannot go on any further, for it is a part of the 
deception." 

Having said that, Koizumi smiles at the bright calico in my sister's arms and grabs the hiking 
backpack next to the heater. 

"Having anticipated such a situation, I have brought several games with me, which should be 
enough to keep everyone busy even for an entire day." 

I expected something like this, but with him taking out one board game after the other, I wonder 
if Koizumi simply detests video games? 

We can really enjoy ourselves, but what of Mori-san and Arakawa-san? Arakawa, the butler who 
doubles as head chef and the ever busy maid Mori-san who has been constantly tending to our 
needs are both actually members of the 'Organization' that Koizumi is a part of, tasked to keep an 
eye on Haruhi. 

The demeanor of the two is so reserved that I feel rather apologetic about it. Just as I was about 
to lend them a hand with the cooking as well as with the cleaning duties — 

"There is no need. I sincerely thank you for your goodwill." 

The demure pair politely rejected my offer. 

"These are duties within our competence and are our responsibility." 

Eh? Are the two of them actually butler and maid in real life? Were they hired by Koizumi and 
his cohorts to come here just to put on a show? 


Perhaps seeing my concern, Arakawa-san removed the professional mask and put a full smile on 
his face. 



"Our appearance is all due to having gone through professional training," 

He explained to me. At the moment, the two are nowhere to be seen in this public area and are 
probably busy in the kitchen. 

As for the other two actors — Tamaru Keiichi-san who had made his vast fortune that affords 
him a lone island as a summer resort from the field of biotechnology, along with his brother 
Yutaka-san — they have yet to appear. Their arrival will mark the climax of Haruhi's career in 
the field of tabletop games. The nerve-wrecking tradition that is to be the after-meal exercise and 
uses punishment games as the bet is set to begin by two o'clock in the afternoon. Meanwhile 
Haruhi is becoming a billionaire as the rest of us fall knee-deep in debt. 


The two guests are led to the public area by Arakawa-san, who went out to greet them, and they 
chat with us a little. 

"If not for the train delay due to the snow, we would have arrived in the morning." 

Tamaru Keiichi-san, who appears to be an ordinary uncle no matter how you look at him, has as 
warm a smile as in the summer. 

"Ahh, hello everyone, it's been a while." 

Tamaru Yutaka-san, the sunshine boy, shows an exaggerated smile to Koizumi as he waves to 
us, and then addresses Tsuruya-san: 

"Hi, my name is Tamaru, pleased to meet you, and thank you for your hospitality. To be invited 
to the Tsuruya family's retreat is an honor." 

"Not at all, don't be so modest!" 

Tsuruya-san happily continues: 

"You are all friends of Koizumi-kun and with the entertainment that you've all prepared, I am 
more than happy about everything! I love a good show!" 

No matter who she talks to, Tsuruya-san seems to have a way of turning the other person into a 
friend in about fifteen seconds. She must be like that in Asahina-san's class. I am quite envious 
of the male students in that class. 

Mori-san and Arakawa-san greet the Tamaru brothers once again. 


We welcome your arrival, dear guests. 



"Sorry to trouble you all even in winter." Keiichi-san gives an awkward smile. "Thanks for 
everything, Arakawa." 

"Have you all had lunch by now?" 

Mori-san inquires with a smile. Yutaka-san replies. 

"We already ate on the train. Please bring our luggage to our rooms." 

"Of course, please leave it to me." 

Arakawa-san returns a deep bow as he suddenly gives Koizumi a look. 

"Well then, everyone," 

Koizumi stands up like the the priest in a marriage ceremony- 

"With everyone so anxious to start, let us begin the game. Of course that might be an 
inconvenience to the Tamaru brothers who have just arrived." 

His smile seems a little stiff. Could it be that Koizumi lacks confidence with the game 
arrangements or that some awkward situation is awaiting us? 

"Let me state that the only victim will be Keiichi-san. This will not become a serial murder case. 
And there is only one murderer so please rule out the possibility of multiple suspects. As for 
motivation... you can ignore it as there is no meaning in that. Lastly, once we start setting the 
stage-" He points to the clock of the wall, "-which should begin between two and three in the 
afternoon, save Arakawa-san and Mori-san, no other person may leave this public area for the 
duration. Yutaka-san is to stay here as well. If there is anything that needs to be attended to 
before we begin, please see to it now. Can all of you abide by those rules?" 

Everyone nods. 

"There are still seven minutes till two o'clock, but that's not a problem. Let us begin." 

Koizumi gives a nod to Tamaru Keiichi-san. 

"Well then-" 

Keiichi scratches his head with an awkward look, as he is once again the center of attention, 
repeating the role of the victim as in the summer. He stands up and then talks to us as if he is 
baiting us: 

"I suppose that my room is the small hut outside the main house." 


Yes, please follow me," Mori-san says. 



"I would like to take a little nap. Having to wake up so early this morning left me sleep deprived. 
I might also have caught a cold, as my nose is acting up." 

"Oh yes, Keiichi-san is allergic to cats. This might have been caused by the cat." 

Even for an act, this is getting too carried away. 

"Might be. Ahh, don't worry too much about it. My cat allergy is not all that serious. It is a pain 
to be in a small room, but it isn't much of a problem if we are in a wide open space." 

After that he gives a reminder: 

"Oh yes, can you come and wake me at about four-thirty? Is that ok? At four-thirty?" 

"Of course." 

Mori-san bows, then stands up straight and elegant as she walks out. 

"Please follow me. This way." 

Hurrying to catch up to Mori-san, Keiichi-san disappears into the hallway after having spewed 
out a whole bunch of long-winded lines. The whole interlude screams, "All's right with the 
world!" 

"I will take my leave then. Yutaka-san, I will help you with the luggage." 

Arakawa-san the butler gives a full ninety-degree bow and quickly leaves with the bag and coat. 
Having seen them all off with his eyes, Koizumi faked clearing his throat: 

"With that, scene one has come to an end. Please enjoy yourselves on this wide-open floor." 
"Hold it," 

Haruhi objects. 

"What's with the hut? Where is it if it exists?" 

"Oh yeah," Tsuruya-san responds, "it was not built with the house, it's just a very small 
extension. Eh? Did none of you spot it?" 

"Not at all. Koizumi-kun, to hide any lead is against the rules. Not telling us is just not fair. Let's 
all go and take a look. " 

"I had planned to take everyone there later on..." 



Koizumi's smile is rather forced with how fast the pacing of things has become. However there 
seems to be room to salvage the situation after he has a look at the clock. 

"I understand. It's not a problem to go and have a look right now." 

"Over here!" 

Tsuruya-san heads out in the lead. Everyone else naturally follows. Even my sister has come 
along while hugging Shamisen. Although I don't really think that the girl and the cat will be of 
any help with the deduction. 

Just beyond the public area is a walkway ending on the central courtyard. The exterior wall is 
glass, and so the view of the courtyard outside is crystal-clear. 

I don't know exactly when, snow had begun to drift from the sky. 

The accumulated snow was already knee-deep. The landscaping is Japanese in style and it's only 
because of the snowfall that it seems to be totally white everywhere. Within this white scene, a 
small building that looks to be a hut stands by itself. 

After a short walk, Tsuruya-san opens the door leading to the courtyard and points to the 
building. 

"That is the hut that my grandfather uses to meditate. He hates noise and in order to escape from 
the clamors of the villa, he locks himself inside whenever we come here on vacation. Don't come 
if you don't like the noise! But it's odd not to invite him. He's a tough old geezer to please." 

Tsuruya-san might be complaining about it, but her tone is filled with a sense of longing as well. 

I carefully observe every detail without overlooking anything. There is no solid wall anywhere 
on the passage between the door from the villa to the hut. Only the roof keeps out the snow. 
Thanks to that, the stone path from the house to the small hut is covered by snowflakes. Thank 
goodness that there's only light snowfall today as things won't be so good in a blizzard. 

The subzero air that blows in from the wide open door freezes us without any jacket to death, 
especially Shamisen who is struggling about in a bad mood as he wants to get back to his warm 
bed. My sister finds Shamisen in this mood to be highly amusing, and before I can stop her, she 
heads out of the walkway after putting on her slippers and pushes Shamisen close to the piles of 
snow. 

"Hey, Shami, this is snow. Want to eat it?" 

Shami shakes about like a carp trying to break free from the fishing wire, and the moment that he 
gets free of my sister's arms, he gives a 'umeow-' in a show of his own dissatisfaction and storms 
back to the house, vanishing without a trace. No doubt he is going back onto the heated floor to 
continue with his sleep. 



"Ara." 

Mori-san, after having led Keiichi-san to his room, comes toward us on the stone pavements with 
a movement so light it's as if she's weightless. This beauty of age unknown gives us a charming 
smile. 

"Is there something that I can help you all with? If you need to find Keiichi-sama, he would be 
inside the hut." 

"You sure?" Haruhi questions with her face showing a sceptical look. 

"I am positive." Koizumi answers instead. "That is because the script is set up this way." 


When we return to the public area, the clock points exactly to two o'clock. Koizumi sighs 
apparently in relief. 

"Allow me to remind everyone not to leave on your own before three o'clock. If you have to do 
so, please allow me to escort you." 

Koizumi walks to the bag over in the corner and starts to take things out of it. Why not just take 
everything out at once? 

"Hmm?" 

I notice something. Shamisen is nowhere to be seen. Koizumi has placed things over by the 
heater, and the cushion that is placed over the heat vent is the preferred seating of the cat. I 
thought that he'd be laying there still by this point. Although this concern- 

"Let's play this to pass the time. Is that alright, Suzumiya-san?" 

vanishes without a trace with Koizumi's comments. 

"Sure." Haruhi seems to be in high spirits for some reason. "It might be a bit early, but we'd be 
playing later on anyway, so might as well. Koizumi-kun, gimme that." 

Haruhi grabs a paper bag from Koizumi and takes out some strange things from it, a few pieces 
of paper that might be for sketching and the same number of envelopes. I suddenly feel a sense 
of anxiousness that is kind of hard to describe. 


"This is Fukuwarai." Says Haruhi. "Did you all play it when we were kids? This is meant for 
tomorrow, but it would be a waste of time to not play it right now." 



This is obvious just from the looks of the setup. Be it the facial features or the hairline, all of 
these are cute versions of our portraits. The outlines are actually very true to the original, quite 
identifiable even without facial features such as eyes or nose. That could be the reason why 
Haruhi's so very smug right now. 

"This is my work. I did it myself! And it's all done by hand. There's even one for Tsuruya-san. I 
even did one for for your sister knowing that she's coming along. Sorry about that Yutaka-san ~ I 
don't have much of an impression of your face..." 

"No worries." Yutaka-san sounds quite relaxed about it. "It is natural for you not have much of 
an impression of my look." 

"I suppose." 

Haruhi looks at us members with a smile. 

"Not bad huh? We can play the game with our faces. But let me tell you that there's no going 
back. The faces when they're done will be glued and put to display in the clubroom, so you better 
take this seriously or the portraits that will be put to display for generations to see will be some 
cubist impressionist work." 

Her head is always thinking of the silliest things. Well Haruhi's got quite the artistic talent, with 
her capturing our features really well. If we put the pieces together right, it should be easy to 
identify these as our caricatures. That point alone means that we can't let Haruhi down. 

However, just how does she find the kind of time to do this stuff? 

"Who wants to start first?" 

Tsuruya-san bravely raises her hands the moment Haruhi asks that question. 


Tsuruya-san, while she does not seem to be an average person, has no x-ray vision. After having 
been blindfolded by a towel, she arranges a laugh riot of a portrait beautifully and makes the 
room catch infectious laughter, which of course drives her to hilarity having seen the final results 
as she tosses about on the ground. Not even with laugh bags can you crack up like that. 

The second-up is Koizumi. His handsome face is ruined in an instant. After having taken off his 
shroud and getting a look at his final works, he shakes his head with innumerable woes, but 
knowing that I come next makes me unable to really laugh about it. 


What a game this is, making me feel butterflies in my stomach. As I mentally prepare myself- 



"Pardon me for a second." Koizumi whispers to me. "I need to talk to Arakawa-san and the 
others about tomorrow's arrangements, so I will excuse myself for now." 


With that, he walks out of the public area. I have no idea what it is that he needs to talk about, 
but that isn't terribly important. How will my personal portrait appear when it is enshrined in the 
clubroom is now totally up to my ability of spacial orientation. 


My self-portrait ends with a burst of laughter. Oh well, it's better than making an absolutely plain 
face and chilling the room to below freezing anyway. Although Tsuruya-san, aren't you laughing 
a bit too hard over this? 

As I take off the towel and hearing Tsuruya-san's high-pitch squeals, I see that Koizumi is back. I 
look at the clock out of reflex. 

The time is slightly past two thirty. 

"Pardon me." 

Without knowing what he's planning, Koizumi somehow returns with Shamisen who 
disappeared into nowhere only just a while ago. Just what's Koizumi doing with him? 

"Nothing. He wouldn't let go of Mori-san in the kitchen." 

Koizumi puts Shamisen directly on the cushion at the heater and he curls up into a ball having 
being bathed in the warm wind. Putting the cat somewhere warm while it has a full stomach is a 
sure-fire way to tame it. 

"How are the results?" 

Koizumi sits right next to me and looks toward the hearth. Tsuruya-san and Koizumi as well as 
my portraits have already been vandalized by my little sister and are now glued and ready for 
display. Instead of posting these, I suggest posting something else such as full-size shots of 
Asahina-san's cosplay photos. 

Time flies by and up next are Asahina-san and Nagato. Asahina-san looks cute doing just about 
anything as she struggles to find the facial parts with her shaking hands and by the end has made 
a funny, but very cute portrait, while surprisingly Nagato also completes an ultra-modernist 
picture. Of course, judging from Nagato's expression, she has no idea why it is that her own self- 
portrait tickles at people's funny bone as she stares at her own seemingly 'happy' work. 




£3 

...judging from Nagato's expression, she has no idea why is it that her own self-portrait tickles at people's 
funny bone as she stares at her own seemingly 'happy' work. 

Just as we are dueling to the bitter end with the Fukuwarai pictures... 

"Everyone, it is almost three o'clock," 

Koizumi suddenly announces. 

"I would like to give everyone a recess for now. Please stay here from three till four o'clock. If 
anyone needs to go to the washroom then please do so right now." 

Save Nagato, Yutaka-san, Koizumi and me, everyone else has left the raised floor. Nagato 
studies her own portrait while Yutaka-san stares at Nagato's profile with interest. 

I ask Koizumi: 

"When will the murder occur?" 

"Let's not talk about that for now. Take a look outside the window ok?" He points to the window. 
"You can see that it is snowing outside right? Please remember that. Even if it weren't snowing, I 
would have liked you to treat it as such, but things are actually falling into exact place so there's 
no need for that. 

Just as I start to examine the reassuring smile of Koizumi, the gang of four girls have returned. 
Yutaka-san seems to be the most likely suspect. There is no one else that fits the profile better, 
although I have yet to discover anything odd in his behavior. 


Haruhi steps right into the hearth. 




"Koizumi-kun, let's play that next. Would you get it for me?" 

"Sure, is this it?" 

Koizumi heads toward the bag and I follow him to see just what kind of hand-made game 
gadgets he is about to dig out. Just as I look from behind him as he digs around in the bag, he 
quickly turns back and looks at me and as if he is doing magic, takes out a large sheet of paper 
from the bag. 

"Please give this to Suzumiya-san for me, thank you." 

That folded piece of paper fluttered with the hot winds from the electric heater. After expanding 
it, I suddenly get this odd feeling. It isn't over this enormous piece of paper though. Before me is 
Koizumi who is putting the bag down and beside me is the heater. Shamisen is sleeping soundly 
on the cushion to my back. 

This scene is not really bizarre, but I keep feeling that something is up with this. The oddest part 
would be that Koizumi seems to be anxious when I stick with him. 

"Kyon, get over here! Stop standing like an idiot!" 

I head back to the hearth rather unwillingly and Koizumi joins us soon after. 

The hour hand is now exactly pointed at three o'clock. 


"I made this with Koizumi-kun." 

Haruhi is so swollen with pride that she's almost up in the air and is this close from having pride 
written all over her face. 

"This the Sugoroku custom made for the SOS Brigade. I made it square by square personally, so 
be grateful as you play on it." 

By the way, the first square that I park on after the first dice toss has the following words written 
on it: 

"Only to Kyon, thirty sit-ups." 

There are also 'Play strip rock, paper, scissor with the next person that comes to a stop', 'say five 
different things to make the chief happy', 'honestly answer everyone's question (things that put 
people on the spot)' and so forth. This Haruhi-made version of the game has rules that spell out 
punishment game. 



With the rules set out as such, the players have to oblige. Asahina-san and Yutaka-san stop at the 
rock, paper, scissor square, but Asahina-san has no idea what the name of the game is and totally 
freezes up, so I take over instead. As for the other events, they are almost like a parade made to 
torture me. An hour after the game had started with Tsuruya-san reaching the end point, I am 
about to drop dead. 

I am sure that Koizumi is not intervening out of pity, but seeing him raising his hand to comment 
is an enormous relief to me. 

"Everyone, it is now exactly four o'clock." 

Koizumi announces like a live show announcer. 

"Free activity time now begins. Please return by four thirty. By the way, please refrain from 
going out. Of course, that applies to anyone who is not the murderer." 

"Well then, excuse me." 

Tamaru Yutaka-san gives a smile laced with hidden meanings as he leaves his seat. 

"I am going to open up my luggage in my room. Hmm~ I should return in five minutes." 

Yutaka-san leaves the floor after having said that. "We're off to the kitchen." Haruhi and 
Tsuruya-san also take off. Within a few minutes they return with desserts and juice. None of us 
has left the hearth save for them, since no one wants to be wrongfully accused as the perpetrator 
of the crime, since that's the worst thing to have happen to you. 

Note that Yutaka-san has indeed returned in about five minutes. 


The time is just past four thirty. 

Mori-san has come to the public area and informs us that: 

"Keiichi-sama is not answering my calls." 

She acts out an unsettled look. 

"I've tried to wake him in the small hut, but there's no answer and the door is locked from 
within." 

"The moment has finally arrived." 


Haruhi stands up full of spirit. 



"Let us go see the situation at the scene." 

Haruhi marches over to the walkway like the guide of a tour group, with us trailing behind. 

When we arrive at the courtyard and open the door, we find enough outdoor shoes for all of us. 
Arakawa is already at the door of the hut when we step onto the corridor leading to the hut. 

"What's the situation?" 

"I see that Mori has informed you all. It is as she has said, the door is locked from inside. The 
key and Keiichi-san are both in the room. By the way, there is no spare key. That sums up the 
situation." 

"That's it." Koizumi starts to explain: "There is no need to break down the door. Everyone just 
has to think along the lines of there being no spare key. Arakawa-san, key please." 

Arakawa the butler extends his palm and a key is in his hand. 

"Pay no heed to this key that shouldn't have existed." 

Haruhi steps right in the moment that Koizumi has opened the door. 

"Hi." 

Keiichi-san waved at us with one hand. The elder Tamaru who is lying on the bedsheets points to 
his chest and says: 

"I have been stabbed again." 

On his chest was the handle of a dagger. It's one of those common little toys that you can buy 
just about anywhere to scare people with. 

"Who stabbed you?" Haruhi asks. 

"That I can't tell you. I am a corpse by now. Dead men don't talk." 

With that, Keiichi spreads his arms and lies flat on the tatami. 

"Everyone please listen to me." Koizumi starts again: "Please observe the surrounding. The key 
to the hut is on the desk. It would be the one that Keiichi-san was given when he arrived. To put 
it another way, the killer did not leave through the door." 

Koizumi proceeds to the window by the engawa. 

"This window is closed, but not locked. That is to say, the killer escaped through this window. In 
addition, notice the thick layer of snow outside." 



Koizumi opens the window and we all take a look at the courtyard. 


"Let me explain the perpetrator's escape path. The killer no doubt must have escaped through 
here if not through the door. To walk on snow must mean that there's footprints, but there is no 
such mark on the snow. Please look above the window. This hut has an overhanging roof on all 
four corners. A thin layer of snow has accumulated beneath them. It looks to be that the killer 
must have gone along the field beneath the roof or along the outer wall of the hut and back to the 
corridor. " 

I stare at the ground that Koizumi points to and then at the sky. Snowflakes are drifting down 
gradually. 

"The footprints of the killer have been covered by the snowfall. From the rate of accumulation... 
yes, let me make the point that the footprints won't disappear with less than thirty minutes of 
snowfall." 

Koizumi seems to seek everybody's consensus on the matter. 

"This is my scenario setting, so please forgive me. Dead men won't talk and I, as the game 
planner, sure won't lie about anything either." 


"Oh~ 


Haruhi looks at the snow and then at Koizumi, her face sinks as she hugs her chest. 

"That's it?" 

Koizumi gives no response and only merely points to the sheets. Within the soft quilt, something 
seems to moving about. Could it be... 

Haruhi is the one that moves the quilt out of the way, and she says the following on the object: 
"Shamisen?" 

The thing that narrows its eyes from the sudden exposure to light is none other than my cat. 


We take our place over the hearth once more. 

Mori-san and Arakawa-san are standing perfectly still behind us. Only Keiichi-san the victim has 
done his duty and by now should be leisurely enjoying hot coffee over at some restaurant. 

"Let me summarize the key points. Keiichi-san went into the hut for a nap at about two o'clock. 
The body was discovered only recently, at around four thirty. The perpetrator must have 



committed the crime within the last two and a half hours. The entrance of the hut is locked from 
inside and the key is in the room. Let me remind you that there is no spare key. The window to 
the side is unlocked, which means that the killer must have escaped through the window." 

The above is Koizumi's explanation. 

"It is impossible to head to the corridor through the window without a trace. Having no footprint 
indicates that the original footprints have been covered by snow." 

Koizumi looks at the calico that my sister is hugging. 

"Lastly, Shamisen is present on the scene of the crime along with the victim. Please think back to 
when you have last seen the cat, before we have discovered the body and the cat. " 

The last time that I saw him would be when Koizumi had announced that we could head to the 
washroom. He was sound asleep, curled up in a ball, when Koizumi took out Haruhi's self-made 
sugoroku punishment game. 

"Eh? Really?" 

Haruhi pokes at her forehead with a finger. 

"I didn't notice Shamisen for the last three hours. Was he really there?" 

"I did see..." Asahina-san shows reservation with her words. "Eh, did see it when we were 
playing the Fukuwarai. It was lying on the cushion and sleeping." 

"He was asleep when I last saw him too!" Tsuruya-san says. "Just as I was heading to the 
washroom, I saw the kitty laying there, curled up in a ball, but I don't remember if I saw him 
when we started with Fukuwarai." 

Based on everyone's testimonies, I seem to be the last person to have seen Shamisen. Basically, 
Shamisen has no alibi from three till four thirty. 

Could it have been that Shamisen woke up in the middle of our game and went for a leisurely 
walk? And after walking round and round he headed to Keiichi-san's hut and dug into the bed in 
order to catch some sleep... 

Hmm ? No way. 

"I do not think that the cat would leave on his own to go to the hut." I propose. "He was freezing 
to death just by being outside for a little bit and he was freaked out by the snow. That and there's 
no way that he could open the door to the courtyard by himself." 


That is true. 



Koizumi nods. 


"Therefore someone must have taken him there. It would either have been Keiichi-san or the 
killer." 

"It couldn't have been Keiichi-san." 

Haruhi extends her neck. 

"He mentioned before that he is allergic to cats, although it might have been too dead obvious, 
but it does answer that question, almost as if it were said intentionally." 

"Of course, for that is the setting to the drama. If such a setting is not present things will get 
problematic. That is to say, the one that had taken the cat into the hut must have been the culprit, 
which is a hint in itself." 

Haruhi raises her hand regarding Koizumi's speech. 

"Wait a second. How about this? Shamisen was here at three, and he's gone right after that. The 
killer must have left the house before four-thirty, at the latest. Given that you need thirty minutes 
to cover up the tracks, the time of the crime has to be pushed back to around four. That would 
mean that the killer must have taken Shamisen somewhere between three to four, which would 
also be the time that Keiichi-san was killed." 

"True, definitely quite logical." 

"As if that was logical. This doesn't add up. Only Tsuruya-san and I left here at four, but I was 
with her at all times, so I couldn't have been the culprit. Although Yutaka-san is suspicious, he 
couldn't have done it with that thirty minutes of time required to cover the tracks." 

"That's true." 

"True my ass! That would mean that everyone's got an alibi since we've all been staying put over 
here for that one hour." 

There are eight of us that were playing the Fukuwarai at three, being myself, Haruhi, Asahina- 
san, Nagato, Koizumi, my sister, Tsuruya-san, and Yutaka-san. Since the break before three until 
the start of free time at four, none of us had left. The only thing that had mysteriously vanished 
would be the cat. 

"Could the killer have been Arakawa-san or Mori-san?" 

We decide to call the two attendants over for interrogation. Haruhi asks as if she is a prosecutor: 
"Well then, Arakawa-san, what were you doing at three o'clock?" 



Butler Arakawa returns with a polite bow. 


"I have been at the kitchen since two o'clock, cleaning up the dishes from lunch and preparing 
for tonight's dinner as well as making snacks and preparing the ingredients for tomorrow's 
breakfast. " 

"Were there any witnesses?" 

"If I may." Mori-san in maid attire shows a smile on her beautiful face. "I was alongside 
Arakawa as we prepared the meals. He did not leave my sight until four-thirty when I went to 
wake Keiichi-sama." 

"Likewise." Arakawa-san says. "At least from three to four-thirty, I am positive that Mori did not 
leave the kitchen at all, if you would accept my testimony." 

"That is to say that you two are providing alibis for each other." 

Haruhi nods her head. 

"But that leaves the possibility that you two share the crime. It is entirely possible that one of you 
is covering for the other. " 

Haruhi's glimmering eyes turn to Koizumi as if she is demanding another explanation. 

"That would be impossible. The premise of this murder case is that it has a sole assailant and that 
both Arakawa-san and Mori-san will not make any false statements. By the way, the two of them 
did not commit the crime. The guarantee is that my word, as the scenario designer, is right." Says 
Koizumi. 

"If so, who can the killer be?" Haruhi seems happy. "Everyone has a flawless alibi, so wouldn't 
that mean that nobody killed Keiichi-san?" 

Koizumi seems to be a little bit pleased. Haruhi has really scratched where he itches. He shows a 
smile: 

"That is why I would like to ask everyone to think about it and solve the mystery, or this would 
not be a detective mystery game." 




£3 

The premise of this murder case is that it has a sole assailant and that both Arakawa-san and Mori-san 
will not make any false statements. 

"The first step is to think of the reason behind the culprit using Shamisen." 

Haruhi, who has risen to chair the deduction meeting pokes at the nose of the lazy calico that my 
sister is embracing. 

"Otherwise there's no meaning then. Just what could the killer have been up to that makes him 
ask for help from a cat?" 

If the cat could speak once more, he'd have the best testimony, for he is a witness. 

"Definitely. I feel as if that there must be a reason for Shamisen to be present on the scene of the 
crime." 

I know that much without having you spelling it out. The real headache is the rationale behind all 
of this. 

"Kitty, kitty, umm~" Asahina talks to herself in such a cute way, as she puts a hand over the head 
of the cat. "Kitty, calico, mew. Umm~ umm, little kitty, eat cat food." 

There's not much sense to that. 

Tsuruya-san, who seems to have a very keen sense of observation, sticks out her tongue and her 
eyes slants upward just like the mascot of a brand of candy, (note: That would be Peko-chan of 
Fujiya) Maybe that's just how she looks when she is in thinking mode. She shows this most 
interesting look and hugs her chest in silence. 





Nagato is almost synonymous to silence. Although I'd say that she should keep quiet given the 
current state of affairs, I dare say that Nagato has already seen through Koizumi's stupid plot. 
Let's hope that she will jump in when everyone else gives up on the deduction game. 

"The real key here is Shamisen's disappearance. If we assume that he wasn't there in the 
beginning... that'd be a sealed room mystery? A temporarily sealed room made possible by the 
snowfall... hmm?" 

Haruhi who was thinking aloud suddenly lifts her head and stares at Koizumi's smile and then 
gives a glance over towards Yutaka-san's collected expression, then at Shamisen's sleepy face. 

"Temporary sealed room... alibi... ahh, I get it." 

Haruhi sudden turns my way. 

"Kyon, what do you think of when we're talking about alibis?" 

"Police drama." I start to regret it the moment I utter that out. "Ur... two hour detective mystery 
theater." The comment that comes right after only makes me all the more embarrassed. As I 
think of what to say next, the clock ticks by a second at a time. 

"It's a conspiracy!" 

Haruhi answers her own question. 

"What else could it have been other than a conspiracy to provide an alibi? Shamisen is a setup to 
give the culprit an alibi." 

What kind of setup? 

"Use your head for once! Listen, at what time did Shamisen's alibi start?" 

From three o'clock till about four-thirty. The last time that I saw him would be around three, and 
he's transported to the scene of the crime by four thirty. 

"Stop thinking about that period of time. Think back at events earlier than that." 

Before three? Wouldn't that be when we were roaming about in the villa? Wait, hold on. 
"Koizumi, when was it that you had the cat brought back here?" 

The easy smile on that handsome face seems to change to a more accented angle. 

"At just past two-thirty." 


Where did you get him from? 



The kitchen. 


Koizumi gives a smile to Mori-san. 

"Is that right?" 

"Yes." 

Mori looks at Shamisen with a smile. 

"When I was tending to clean-up work in the kitchen, this cat would not let go of the side of my 
leg. I couldn't resist his begging, so I fed him with the leftovers, but he only got more 
underfoot... Koizumi-san came by just in time, and I asked him to bring the cat back here." 

I remember now, Koizumi had said that he needed to talk about tomorrow's plans and left his 
seat for a while. 

"That was at two-thirty?" 

Mori-san, the maid in plain attire, displays a brilliant smile that would have people take a few 
steps backward from its glimmer. 

"Err... I believe so. I did not look at the time so I cannot be sure of the exact moments, although 
it should have been around two-thirty or so." 

"Starting when had Shamisen been staying there?" 

"About two. It was grooming its fur when I returned from the cabin." 

That's basically his whereabouts. After my calico escaped the clutches of my little sister, he went 
off to beg for food from Mori-san, and then got taken back here at around two-thirty by Koizumi. 
That's no doubt why he was napping so soundly the moment he hit the futon by the heater. 

He simply sneaked back there, so that's it. The calico roaming around the estate after having 
escaped the clutches of my sister, went begging for food from Mori-san and then he was brought 
back by Koizumi at two-thirty, which would explain why he had been napping the moment he 
got to the futon close to the heater. 

"With this, there exists an explanation for his whereabouts from two to three." 

An alibi for an hour? What did Shamisen see going from here to the hut? 

"There is a scam here." 

Haruhi squeezes her eyes and touches her throat. It is as if the clues will leap out just by her 
doing this move. 



"The only thing that we are sure of is the movements during that one hour, while everything else 
is sketchy, especially as to the whereabouts of the cat after three. The explanation for the cat's 
absence, and how Shamisen fell to the culprit's lap..." 

Haruhi shows an expression of contemplation, and I acted along with her. My sister looks on at 
us with a bewildered expression, Yutaka-san looks on with only a smile. He probably knows the 
truth already, given that he is the lead suspect. 

"Need more hints?" 

"A moment." 

I halt Koizumi's comments as I start to organize my thoughts. 

It was at around two that Keiichi-san headed off to the hut. 

The cat was last seen at three, and nobody had seen him from then till four-thirty when we found 
him in Keiichi-san's room. 

If the killer sneaked off to the main building through the window, it had to be done early enough 
so that the falling snow can cover his tracks. The time of murder can be deduced to be around 
three to four. 

However, from three to four, all of us, including Yutaka-san were on the open floor and did not 
go out. It is only after four that Yutaka-san, Haruhi and Tsuruya-san had left. 

Hmm, all right. I nodded sympathetically. 

"Give us some clues." 

Koizumi lifts his shoulders. 

"I thought that the first to have noticed would've been either you or your sister." 

With that, he falls to silence. 

"What did you say?" 

What kind of a hint is that? For goodness sake, my sister and I aren't nearly as sharp as Haruhi 
and Tsuruya-san. 

"Ahh, I got it!" 


A brightly lit Tsuruya-san raises her voice after Haruhi, 



"I know it now! Haruhi-nyan! The proof that the cat isn't there is the alibi for the culprit being 
absent." 

Tsuruya-san continues with a look of sudden realization on her face: 

"Yeah, that's it! That's why the kitty cannot be elsewhere. Not just anywhere, and not in the hut, 
but rather it has to be in the public space that everyone is at." 

I did not understand one word that came out of Tsuruya-san's mouth. While Asahina-san and I 
are dumbstruck, Haruhi seems to follow, and shouts out at a high decibel level, 

"That's it! That's right, that's it! Tsuruya-san, nice! Basically, within that one hour, the cat must 
be at a place that it can be seen by all, for if the culprit didn't do that, his own alibi for not being 
there would be blown." 

"Bingo!" 

Tsuruya-san makes a loud snap with her fingers. 

"Shami went missing not at three, but at two-thirty... no... rather within the thirty minutes 
between two-thirty to three... in other words, the time of murder should be at around two-thirty, 
am I right?" 

"Yep! 1 

Hold on for a minute all right? Would it be too much trouble to explain to those of us that are 
lost what you two have come to realize? I can't make head nor tail out of the current situation. 

"You're slow. Kyon, for Shamisen to go missing from three to four-thirty, and then to emerge at 
the scene of the crime afterwards would puzzle who?" 

That would be us. 

"Well, who stands to gain from that?" 

Nobody. 

"As if it's nobody! The killer was the one that whisked Shamisen away and locked him into the 
hut! There has to be a reason as to why the murderer would do that. Let me ask you again, which 
part would be the most beneficial to the murderer?" 


Haruhi's eyes glare at me menacingly, as would the eyes of the culprit at the detective. 




£J 

The two smile at a certain individual and as partners performing in unison, they name the murderer in 
one synchronized breath... 

"Ahh-" I say. "Shamisen would be at the hut... because of the culprit taking him there, so the 
moment that Shamisen vanished would be the time of the murder..." 

"That's it?" 

Ahh? What's it? 

"You still don't get it! Everybody thinking this way is how the plot was to start. The killer wants 
us to think that the interval of time where Shamisen has no alibi for absence is the moment that 
the crime occurred!" 

"Everyone has an alibi from three to four." Tsuruya-san picks up with the explanation. "However 
what about after two? Does the fact that we were told not to leave the scene mean that nobody 
had left?" 

"That is because the murderer must ensure that he has an alibi from two to three." Haruhi 
continues. "So, he has to make it seem as if Shamisen never left here. Why is that? It's because 
Shamisen, having gone missing from three to four-thirty, would actually establish the murderer's 
alibi. That is because Shamisen cannot possibly be over here and at the scene of the crime 
simultaneously; so knowing when the cat was here leads one to think that the murderer couldn't 
have taken him to the hut at the same time. But the last person to have seen Shamisen was you, 
and that was at three. The culprit wants us to conclude that he would have taken him to the hut at 
around three, so we fall into his psychological trap." 

"With that, who the murderer might be is obvious. It would be the person that has no clear alibi 
at about two-thirty and who was close to the kitty before three ! " 



Tsuruya-san chuckles. 


"Kyon, are you following this? Think outside of the box. We only have to find the person that 
can take advantage of the time when Keiichi-san entered the hut, at two, to four-thirty, when we 
broke into the room. If you think about it, there can only be one person that could've done it. 
However, if you assume that the murder took place after three, he would have proof of absence 
from the scene. In summary, we made a wrong assumption on the moment of murder!" 

Haruhi, not to be trumped, shows a bright smile. 

"That's right. Keiichi-san was killed before three. Shamisen was taken to the hut at that time as 
well." 

"Hold on," I start asking, "how can you account for the Shamisen that I saw at three then? How 
about the Shamisen who was napping that Asahina-san saw before three? Could Shamisen split 
himself?" 

"Kyon, you still don't get it?" 

Haruhi shows a victory smile in stride. 

"I will now explain the actions of the murderer to you. First, since the creator of the game 
assured us that Mori-san and Arikawa-san are not the culprits and would not give false alibis, 
their testimonies are not important." 

It seems that the only ones that don't get it would be me, Asahina-san and my sister. 

"The murderer left this public space some time between two and three, took Shamisen from the 
kitchen and whisked him off to the room in the hut where Keiichi-san was at. It is not important 
whether or not the room was locked. At any rate, the murderer went into the room, assassinated 
Keiichi-san, and locked the door from the inside, leaving Shamisen off to the side, and snuck 
back into the house from the corridor empty-handed." 

"Wait," I further inquire, "what about the Shamisen that I saw? Where did the Shamisen that was 
sleeping by the futon over the heater come from?" 

"In short, that cat would not be Shamisen." 

Haruhi glanced at Tsuruya-san. Having assured herself that Tsuruya-san's expression is in total 
agreement- 

"To conclude, based on the scenario, there can be only one murderer, and that culprit could've 
only done it by himself within the window of a few minutes at around two-thirty, while everyone 
else would not have had the chance to have gone back and forth between the main building and 
the cabin. Regardless of any alibi, that person would be the culprit. I have already disproved his 



alibi. Assuming Shamisen really did go missing at around two-thirty, then there is no other 
explanation than that the Shamisen you saw was a fake." 

Tsuruya-san stretches her neck. 

"Let's put it this way, Kyon-kun, lemme ask you. Was the Shami that you saw from two-thirty 
till three, the real Shami?" 

I am flabbergasted with her asking me that. It's true, I only saw the back of the cat, both as it was 
brought in or as it slept over the futon. I did not see it from up close. 

But then, a fake? Where'd the copycat come from? Could it be that clones of Shamisen have been 
secretly engineered somewhere? 

"How would I know that?" Haruhi answers in a delighted manner. "I tell you, all that is irrelevant 
speculation. The calico that was dozing off from two-thirty to three on the futon was not 
Shamisen, and could not have been Shamisen. Be it a clone, a doll, or a similar cat... it would not 
be your calico." 

"Haruhi-nyan, everyone should know by now who the killer is, so let's just announce his name 
already. We can't move on if we don't do that." 

Tsuruya-san happily offered this opinion. Haruhi lightly nods in agreement. 

"Yeah, especially for Kyon, for if we hold it back any longer, he will probably be pondering 
about this throughout the entirety of the winter break. Ready- do it together?" 

"Sure. The culprit of this murder case is-" 

The two smile at a certain individual and as partners performing in unison, they name the 
murderer in one synchronized breath... 

"Koizumi!" 

Koizumi lifts his hands like a wanted suspect being arrested by famous fortune hunters with dual 
Winchesters. 

"That's right." 

He continues with a slightly bitter smile, as if defeated: 

"I am the murderer. I would have liked to have everyone think about this for a little longer, but I 
still fell victim to the combined minds of Suzumiya-san and Tsuruya-san." 


Haruhi's mouth is sticking out with her laughter, 



"Why didn't you give us free time at around three instead of four? That way, figuring out who the 
murderer is would have taken more time." 

"That's right, that would have made it more difficult to determine who the culprit might be," 
Koizumi starts to explain. "Should one of you have left, that is, to have taken more than five 
minutes away around three'o clock - the five minutes being the time from the hut to the house - it 
would be difficult to remove the person from the list of suspects. In other words, it would make it 
rather easy for the murderer to be misidentified. Instead of risking that happening, I made it so 
that nobody could possibly be a suspect; otherwise the game would become too difficult to play." 

Could it be that the thought simply didn't occur to you, seeing as you are talking up a storm over 
this? 

"Where did you hide the double for Shamisen?" 

"In my room. I had Arakawa-san ship it into the room beforehand, so as to not have him be an 
accessory to the murder. From the view of the scenario, I was the one that brought the double 
in." 

Koizumi's facial expression looks like a slave student part-timer that is getting off work. 

"I took the cat out of my room after having done the murder. Everything that followed would be 
obvious to you all." 

So Koizumi brought a double in at two-twenty. But- 


"Where is the cat?" I ask once more. "Where'd the fake go? Where would that fake Shamisen 
whom I've never seen up close have gone off to? It would be more than a coincidence if it had 
disappeared as well." 

Koizumi gave a quick glance at Haruhi, as if defeated, and then our very own chief steps up and 
strides to an end of the floor where the heater is located. 

"Kyon, just think back to the scene carefully. Wasn't Koizumi-kun right beside the cat as it slept 
on the futon when you saw them? Koizumi took out the Sugoroku from the backpack and handed 
them to you right? With that, you took the Sugoroku game to the hearth, which had all of our 
attention. Koizumi used this break to stuff the napping cat into the backpack. Therefore..." 

Haruhi grabs the backpack standing by the wall while the heater blows warm air through the 
area. 

"It should be in here." 

Saying this, she tips the open bag upside-down and a ball-like shape falls from within. 



Shamisen? 


This cat really resembles Shamisen a great deal, to the point that I can't help myself but to blurt 
that out. Whether it's the physique or the expressions, this is a one-to-one copy. The largest 
difference is that this cat's a female. Male calicos are rare finds in the world, you could go ask 
your biology teacher as to why that is so. 

The fake Shamisen at first sat still on the floor. Then, raising her tail, she heads over to sniff 
noses with Shamisen who my sister is still holding onto. My cat stares at the female with his 
round eyes, and then he frees himself from my sister's hands. The cats' noses take aim at each 
others' rear ends. Following that the two start to chase each others' tails, going round and round. 
After about ten seconds though, the female gets hit on the nose. 

"Oy! Shami!" 

Shamisen, who was now groaning and complaining from his throat, gets picked up by my sister; 
after staring around for the longest time, the female jumps onto Nagato's lap for no apparent 
reason and sits there. 


Nagato lowers her expressionless gaze, coining face-to-face with the kitten that is looking 
straight back at her. Eventually she carefully extends her hand. 

The copycat seems to be very satisfied with Nagato's stroking, as she closes her eyes and curls 
up in a ball. The two cats are very similar, although with a hint of difference. I for one have spent 
two months living with Shamisen, making it rather easy for me to tell my own cat apart from this 
other cat's face- 

"So that's why you said that you assumed that I or my sister should be the first to notice that 
something seems off?" 

"Exactly. I was breaking out in a sweat when you came to me. Had you already discovered the 
truth, I would've told you the whole story secretly and dragged you along with me. However, 
after examining your expression, it seemed that you did not notice anything at all." 

So sorry. That would be to Shamisen. 

"The hardest part was to find that cat." 

Below is the supplemental explanation from Koizumi, the lead. 

"I only found out that an identical cat to Shamisen does not exist after physically going out and 
searching for one. I thought that all calicos are the same at first, but it turns out that I am too 
naive. I only found a similar stray after having gone across the country, but the match is not one- 



hundred percent. The only way to go was to dye parts of the fur on the cat. However, the 
preparation work didn't end with that, as training was required for the cat." 


What trick did it need to learn? 

"The most common trick taught to dogs- 'wait.' All would be for naught if it started to walk all 
over the place, therefore I needed to teach her to pose herself asleep until I give her instructions. 
If she moved during the thirty minutes on the futon or during the hour in the backpack, it would 
lead to major trouble." 

Koizumi shakes his head as if he is reflecting on on the affair. This cat might have the potential 
to be a show cat given how it was able to learn such a trick. It might actually be easier to teach 
Koizumi on how to hypnotize cats instead. 

"I have named the cat as Shamisen the Second, Shami-ni in short, as I couldn't think of a better 
name." 

With that puzzling excuse out of the way, Koizumi cleared his throat: 

"The detective game has come to an end. Suzumiya-san and Tsuruya-san have both made the 
correct deduction, so both deserve the prize. I will present the prize shortly." 

Koizumi gives a bow gracefully. 

"This concludes the event. I thank everyone for their support, especially Tsuruya-san for lending 
the guest house, Tamaru Keiichi-san for posing as the dead and Yutaka-san as the misleading 
character, and of course for the great help from Arakawa-san and Mori-san. I give you all my 
deepest gratitude. Thank you for your supporting roles from the opening till the end." 

Haruhi and Tsuruya-san start to clap like monkeys, and my sister follows, while the seemingly 
totally stymied Asahina-san goes along as well. Seeing Nagato, with a cat on her lap also 
clapping along without making a noise, I clap my hands as well. 

Way to go, Koizumi. 


The prize is a tiny, electroplated trophy. On the trophy, a cat is engraved doing a headstand, 
made in manga style. From the looks of it, it looks somewhat like Shamisen. Since Haruhi and 
Tsuruya-san have already taken a 'V' pose, shoulder to shoulder with the trophy up high, I can 
get on with taking their pictures to commemorate the event. Shamisen the First and Second are 
of course included in the scene. 

A while afterwards, Mori-san and Arakawa-san send out the Toshikoshi-soba earlier than 
expected. Haruhi and Tsuruya-san immediately start to gorge on the meal, while Koizumi over to 
the side doesn't even lift his chopsticks. Oh yes, I have never seen him chowing down on food. 



How did you like the skit? 


This is a rarity, for even in the fantasia yesterday, Koizumi had not asked my opinion with such 
an unsure smile. Although I did not want to praise his self-production and acting- 

"That should be fine right?" 

I drank the noodle sauce, with broth and Nagi added to the mix. 

"Haruhi's mood is as good as it ever gets. You should be happy with that." 

"Having heard you say that is an honor. My hard work has finally paid off, for ultimately this 
detective drama was made to appease Suzumiya-san." 

You appeased her alright, but you had me lost totally. Asahina-san, who was just as confused, is 
still trying to make sense of it with her notebook open. 

"That one is the one at two, and this is the one at three. The cat arrived at between two to three... 
or was it two thirty? Umm... mew mew." 

I chew away at my soba with a deeply concerned look. The person most confused would be my 
sister, but she is lying down on the floor and eating away as if she doesn't even care about the 
mystery. 

I take a breath of relief seeing Nagato's appetite back to normal, with that female calico on her 
lap. When it comes down to it, having everyone acting as usual is the bottom line, although the 
strangely out of line Koizumi is still trying to get sympathy from me: 

"My mind has been totally occupied by this event ever since the winter co-ed was announced. 
Thanks to everyone, I am finally free. I hate being the culprit, and I am not really killer material. 
I am also happy to resign the role of the detective. I am best as a commentator." 

I think that the role of the commentator should be abolished. It's fine so long as nothing happens 
that would require you to blabber away endlessly- 

-an idea just flashed before my mind! 

"This murder drama didn't need to be acted out, right? It simply follows your script. If that's how 
it is, then wouldn't it be fine to just give people printed scenario scripts and leave it at that?" 

Koizumi's face seems to be stuck as if noodles were stuck in his throat, and following that he 
murmurs out a sound like a heavyweight challenger who had been struck in the head, with 
nonstop bleeding and the doctor telling him to throw in the towel. 

"...I suppose that's true." He doesn't seem to want to admit it. 



Oh yes, Koizumi-kun, 


Haruhi speaks while asking for a refill from Mori-san, 

"I leave next summer up to you as well. We've already been to a lone island and a snow 
mountain, so the stage next time should be something even more suspenseful, such as a place 
with some odd name. Anywhere is fine, even overseas. Hey, how about a castle? An old 
fortification made of stone is the perfect setting. " 

Haruhi has effectively scrapped Koizumi and my desire, as she swings her chopsticks around 
like a conductor's baton. 

"I know a great place! My dad has a friend who happens to own a castle overseas!" 

Tsuruya-san has 'delivered' without fail and goes along with Haruhi. This is just great; now 
Haruhi is in an even more elated mood than before. 

"Hear that? Everyone had better get their passport done before summer vacation, alright!" 

I look on to Koizumi, and simultaneously sigh in defeat. We cannot withstand the battering of 
the joined forces of Haruhi and Tsuruya-san as a duo. I, after all, am only a minor character 
whose task it is to persuade Haruhi to give up on her plan to conquer the world. Koizumi is only 
the SOS Brigade's expert drama producer. It might be easier to deal with opponents out of 
nowhere than the Titanic Sisters. 

It looks like if I don't think of something, the SOS Brigade will spawn an overseas division 
sooner or later. I hope that the situation then won't become totally uncontrollable - 1 say this to 
myself, in the depths of my ears, with my deficient language skills. 


This would be the first time ever that I am to spend New Year's Eve without television. 

Mori-san and the others are all taking part in the second round of Sugoroku. This is easy on 
Haruhi but hard on me, and without any notice, we're already into nighttime. The lavish feast and 
time for chatting have gone by, and midnight is quickly approaching while we squander the time 
away; when we finally notice the hour, the year's about to end. 

"When we wake up tomorrow morning, we can start the Fude Hajime and the Hanetsuki 
tournament." 

Would you let us have some Zouni before anything else? 

"Of course, that's a must for New Year's. After all, we couldn't be satisfied with just playing 
Fukuwarai." 



Haruhi stares at the clock on the wall. 


"It's bad if we don't visit the temple." 

It's not that bad. No matter how easygoing the buddhas are, they no doubt won't want to see you 
paying tribute to them. The shrine that we used for backdrop during the filming of that movie 
probably has posted warning signs out to forbid us from visiting them. 

"What're you talking about? To be so blessed as to be in a country where all sorts of religions are 
practiced, it would be a shame not to do everything. Besides, why not celebrate New Year's as 
we've already done Christmas? The idea of not celebrating New Year's is like having already 
reserved for a banquet and leaving after only looking at the utensils! That's why we definitely 
have to be there for the temple visit!" 

Well then, why not dig a snow cave out in the courtyard, and put in a donation bin and a little 
shrine? Well inside the cave, a Miko-wardrobe clad Asahina-san would be the resident deity. 
That way we wouldn't have to run to some temple, and I would devoutly worship through day 
and night, and after that, followers will no doubt flock in, and with that kind of influx of people, 
the donation bin will definitely not be empty. 

"Idiot!" 

Haruhi holds onto the sweet shoulder of Asahina-san. 

"Although it is hard to just not have Mikuru-chan dressed as a Miko, I want to see her in a long 
sleeve kimono first! Although that would be fine to do when the co-ed is over and we're back at 
home. Let's go to some nearby temple or shrine! Ahh, of course Yuki has to get dressed up too! 
Myself as well." 

Asahina-san's ear lobe is now reddish from Haruhi biting on it. Haruhi nods after having a look 
at the clock. 

"Everyone, it's time." 

On Haruhi's direction, we sit in a circle. The five SOS Brigade members not withstanding, 
Tsuruya-san has also become a part of the circle, and my sister along with the two cats are sitting 
beside her. The temporary quartet of the Tamaru brothers, the maid and the butler also are 
invited in by Haruhi. Are you sure that's alright? If things don't go well, you'll all be bossed 
around as honorary members. 

However, nobody is taking heed of my concern, as everyone shows unique smiles. Obviously, a 
person who is still frowning about at this point would be facing rough times ahead, so I drop my 
complaints. 

On Haruhi's order, we all bow, and say that all-too-common phrase together. 



That is a phrase which we say year after year because we're all out of ideas, and it'd be weird to 
use something else as a substitute. A sentence that is in five-five-five format. (Akemashite 
Omedetou Gozaiimasu, or Happy New Year) 

( Where did the Cat Go? End) 


The Melancholy of Asahina Mikuru 

Even though many incidents happened during winter break, it more or less turned out to be as I 
expected, just like getting nothing in return after purchasing a lottery ticket. As I reluctantly 
trudged through the cold, I silently blamed the school's lame construction as it made the already 
freezing temperature seem even colder. 

Trying not to suspect the cold of being a top-secret counter-measure made to combat global 
warming, I tried to fix my eyes elsewhere, but they so happened to land on the classroom's 
malfunctioning heater, making me wonder if our classroom was actually colder than the north 
pole itself. Thinking about how I would have to suffer the same fate until I graduated from high 
school, I was embarrassed at myself for not choosing a better school. But alas, what could I do? I 
was already stuck at North High. 

After school, having nothing better to do, I once again made my way to the clubroom. 


Originally belonging to the literature club, the club room had, during the past year, slowly 
morphed into the SOS Brigade's official headquarters (although I'm not sure "official" is the right 
word to use). Just like a mother bird gradually forgetting about its own young and treating a 
cuckoo's baby as its own, the whole school seemed to have forgotten about the literature club's 
existence. Added to the fact that the sole literature club member didn't mind us occupying her 
club room, even I wasn't bothered by it much anymore, never mind Haruhi. 

No matter how you looked at it, this was the only place I could go after school hours. Although I 
did intend to skip club activities once in a while, the thought of a certain girl sitting behind me 
trying to drill holes in my back with her killer intent fired through high intensity vision beams 
was enough to vanquish any attempt of any kind. It simply wasn't worth the risk. However, I 
wasn't sure if I was making the right choice, or merely the easy one. 

With those thoughts in mind, I instinctively knocked on the door, having arrived at the club room 
without even knowing it. If I were to enter without first knocking, there was a good chance I 
would be greeted with a sight as beautiful as heaven to behold. However, I'd rather make that 


small, often insignificant gesture, in order to ensure something like that doesn't ever happen 
again. 

Under normal circumstances, I would often be answered with a soft "Yes," as the door was 
slowly opened by my smiling sempai, whose appearance was angelic to say the least. She was so 
beautiful she could easily pass as a fairy, pixie or elf in disguise. Waiting for her to open the door 
was an after-school ritual that I had comfortably gotten used to. 


There was no answer. Hence it was safe to conclude that there were no fairies, pixies, elves or 
smiling board game freaks in the club room. Even if there were someone inside, it would be the 
silent book-lover. Not even Haruhi was inside. This I was willing to wager my most prized 
possession, second only to my life, on. 

Having reached this conclusion, I boldly opened the door, as if opening the door to the 
refrigerator in my house. 

Of course, Haruhi wasn't inside, nor Koizumi, and to my surprise, not even Nagato. 

But 

Asahina-san was. 


Her hot figure was impossible to conceal under that maid outfit, as she sat on one of those steel 
folding chairs, holding her broom in one hand, and wearing a look that suggested that she was 
spacing out. There was no doubt, it was our beloved Asahina-san all right. 


Vs 




...she sat on one of those steel folding chairs, holding her broom in one hand, and wearing a look that 
suggested that she was spacing out 

Wait, something wasn't right. 

She was totally oblivious of me entering the club room, as she sat there gazing into space, 
occasionally letting out a sigh or two. It was simply amazing. Even simple gestures like that 
could be watched over and over on tape, and still be equally beautiful. 

I admired the beautiful scene before me for a full minute, before I proceeded to wake her up. 

"Asahina-san?" 

The desired effect was instantaneous. 

"Eh? Ah? Ah! Yes!" 

Jumping up from her seat, Asahina-san looked at me with eyes full of surprise, as she tightly 
clutched her broom in a half sitting position. 

"Ahhhh, Kyon-kun.... When did you arrive?" 

What do you mean when, I clearly remember I knocked. 

"Eh, d-did you? I d-didn't hear it at all S-sorry." 

Asahina-san's face turned a deep shade of pink, as she nervously answered my question. "Umm... 
I was thinking about some... ehh.... stuff..." 

Asahina-san hurriedly stuffed the broom into a utility closet Haruhi nicked not too long ago, 
before raising her head to face me. The expression she wore was also fantastic! Anything she did 
was fantastic! Asahina-san banzai! If it weren't for me constantly reminding myself not to, I 
would have surely rushed forward and cuddled her in my arms, which is what I've always wanted 
to do. Well, what are you waiting for then? Just do it! Nay, hold on a second, try to think about 
what would happen to both you and the world... Just as the war between the angels and demons 
in my mind was fast coming to a conclusion— 

"Where's Suzumiya-san? Isn't she with you?" 

Those miserably short sentences were enough to bring me back to reality. Oh crap, I had almost 
caused another major disaster, one that involved the fate of the world. Again. Pretending as if 
nothing had happened, which was partially true after all, I calmly placed my bag on the desk. 

"That girl's in charge of class duty today. She's probably sweeping the auditorium right now." 


I see... 



As if uninterested in Haruhi's current whereabouts, Asahina-san once again closed her cherry 
lips. 


Even though I wasn't really good at guessing Asahina-san's thoughts, I could clearly tell 
something was different with today's Asahina-san. The time-traveler would usually welcome me 
into the club room with a smile as bright as a flower in the sun (of course, most of the glow was 
due to my imagination), along with her clear, hazel eyes and soft, silky hair, while giving out an 
aura of absolute sweetness. Today, however, she radiated a sense of melancholy. 

With the words "troubled" clearly written all over her face, Asahina-san stood there looking at 
me, her hands twirling furiously in her lap, as if she had to convey an extremely difficult 
message. Sadly, it wasn't due to her being unable to confess her love towards me. I've only seen 
this Asahina-san once, and it didn't take long for the memory to once again resurface. This was 
the same expression Asahina-san wore when she unexpectedly begged me to follow her (for the 
first time) to the past, or more specifically, to the 7th of July three years ago, the day of the 
Tanabata Festival. 

Half a year had passed since then, and while Asahina-san has grown even cuter, I unfortunately 
remain that idiot who always succumbs to a woman's charm. Although I knew that this had 
more-or-less something to do with Haruhi or the current state of the SOS Brigade, I consoled 
myself yet again by saying "Oh never mind, that isn't so bad either". No matter what Asahina-san 
said, I would never remain startled for too long, never mind refuse her offer. 

As I was busy trying to imprint Asahina-san's red maid outfit as my homework, it appeared that 
she finally made up her mind, as she opened her round lips and said: 

"K-kyon-kun, I-I have a favor to ask..." 

Creak. 

The door to the club room softly opened, as if trying to make the least amount of noise as 
possible. With a swish- it slowly slid open. I instinctively turned my head backwards, only to 
see the short-haired, poker-faced girl silently enter the room. 

Like an android, Nagato proceeded to close the door. 


Taking a swift glance at me and Asahina-san, it seemed that Nagato understood that she was 
intruding. Nevertheless, she said nothing and merely headed to her regular seat. 


With her face devoid of any emotion, Nagato sat on her chair before pulling out a large 
hardcover from her bag. If she had shown any interest in me and Asahina-san staring face-to-face 



in an empty club room, it was far outweighed by that book which would be better off being 
called an encyclopedia, the title alone being enough to give anyone a headache. 


Let's just ignore the fact of who reacted first. Asahina-san's actions would always be larger than 
mine, and consequently, more obvious. 

"A-Ah, that's right. Tea. Let me make some tea." 

As if wanting the entire world to know what she was about to do, Asahina-san deliberately raised 
her voice as she stumbled towards the kettle. 

"Water, water." 

Cradling the kettle in her arms, Asahina-san hurriedly opened the door to the refrigerator. 

"Kyaa~ We're out of water... Not to worry, I'll go fetch some." 

I stopped her, just as she was about to hurry out of the club room. 

"Let me help you with that" 

I stretched out my hand to retrieve the kettle from my senpai. 

"It's already cold enough outside. Should you step out in that outfit, you'd inevitably poison other 
students' eyes. There's no need to provide free eye candy for anyone. The water fountain's just 
downstairs. I'll just go and get it..." 

Upon hearing this, Asahina-san immediately said: 

"A-ah, then I'll go with you." 


Asahina-san looked at me with eyes like those of a cat being left alone in the rain. She is so cute! 
Cuteness aside, however, this was also quite a troubling situation. Even now Asahina-san is still 
not accustomed to being alone with Nagato-san. Someone should definitely break the ice 
between them. But come to think of it, having both an alien and a time-traveler co-exist together 
in a small club room was already quite an amazing feat. I suppose it all boils down to who's 
involved, huh? 

Seeing that Asahina-san would rather follow me to fetch some water rather than stay in the club 
room alone with Nagato, I could find no reason to refuse her, even if I were to dig all the way to 
the Mohorovicic discontinuity to search for one. Of course, if it were Haruhi then things would 
be different. Heck, there wouldn't be any need to dig at all - all the reasons would come spewing 
out faster than an unearthed oil fountain. Luckily Haruhi wasn't around, or else I would probably 
suffer another series of mechanical pencil jabs. 



With the kettle safely in my arms, I hummed to myself as I considered which route I should take 
to the water fountain. I finally decided to take the path to the Old Block, when... 

"Ah Wait for me..." 

Still clad in her maid uniform, Asahina-san stumbled along, like a young cat stubbornly clinging 
on to its mother. 

Walking side by side with Asahina-san, I felt a sense of pride swelling up within me. Although it 
wasn't me who gave Asahina-san that perfect figure, those angelic features, or her charming 
personality, as far as I know, I was the only one to have ever been so close to her. Ahaha, what 

joy! 

Too busy feeling pleased with myself, I totally forgot all about Asahina-san's melancholy. That's 
why — 

"Kyon-kun." 

Just as I started filling the kettle with water — 

"Are you free this Sunday? There's a place I would like to visit with you." 

Asahina-san's tone was dead serious. At the same time, I was so shocked by her statement that no 
modern calculating device could determine the exact value of my surprise. For a moment, I 
totally forgot what day today was, and how many days it would take to reach Sunday. After 
much effort, I finally managed to croak out 

"Sure" 

Even if I had something to do this Sunday, at Asahina-san's invitation, all the red markings on 
my calendar had magically disappeared. Even if she requested we meet on the 29th of February, 

I would still be there. Who cares about something as trivial as a leap year? 

"Yeah, I guess I'm kinda free." 

After forcing out those words, shrouds of mist began to slowly rise in my heart. 

— Haven't I heard this somewhere before? 

But then again, at that time we were traveling to three years ago. Time travel gets kinda boring 
after a while, you know? Sure, it may seem fun at first, but frequently hopping from past to 
future and vice versa, one has to wonder if one's appetite grows larger after time travel. 


Please don't worry. 



Asahina-san had subconsciously picked up the kettle, and had started playing with it. Her eyelids 
were drooping, as she casually watched the flow of tap water. 

"This time I'm not going to the past, nor the future. Actually, all I wanted was to get some tea 
leaves from the local supermarket. Kyon-kun, would you care to accompany me?" 

Asahina-san then proceeded to reduce her voice to barely audible levels, and placed her index 
finger on her cherry lips. 

"Keep this a secret from everyone Okay?" 

My chest once again swelled with pride, filled with so much confidence that I reckon I would 
still be able to tell a straight out lie after a full dose of Veritaserum. 


The days, hours, minutes and even seconds that soon followed never felt longer. Why is it that 
the more you stare at the clock, the slower it moves, as if intentionally mocking you? Could it 
have, by any chance, decided to take a holiday while I wasn't looking? Even shaking the clock 
with my hands didn't seem to speed up the movement of the accursed second hand. I finally 
realized how powerless we humans truly were subjected to the slow passing of time, as our dull 
and tasteless life slowly drifts by. 

Nevertheless, this was the first time I had an ordinary, time-unrelated outing with a time traveler, 
for the sole purpose of purchasing tea leaves. Now I'd been thinking these past couple of days 
(since there was obviously no better way of passing time). I didn't think Asahina-san was one to 
have any problems doing the shopping all by herself, and she definitely wasn't so indecisive as to 
need help deciding what brand of tea leaves to buy. Even if she bought the worst tea leaves 
available in the market and produced a cup of totally horrible tea, I would probably still enjoy it. 
And the rest of the SOS Brigade wasn't that picky either. 

If so, what did Asahina-san invite me out for? And why so mysteriously? 


A boy and a girl, of similar age, walking together on a Sunday. 

That is to say, would that be what normal humans consider a date? Hmm, I can't think of any 
other explanation. Yeah, it's a date alright, just as I thought. Choosing tea leaves was just an 
excuse, after all. Aww, you didn't need to be so mysterious. Couldn't you have just told me right 
then? No, wait, this is how it should be. Otherwise, it wouldn't be Asahina-san. 


With those thoughts in mind, Sunday finally came. 



I pedalled my bike furiously as I sped towards the agreed meeting spot before the train station. 
My trusty bike seemed to understand how I felt, as even without a motor, the pedals spun 
shockingly fast. This was probably the first time I had looked forward to a meeting ever since I 
joined the SOS Brigade, because this was an extremely ordinary outing. The destination was not 
a sealed space with blue giants, the tickets weren't tickets to the future, and the mode of transport 
definitely wasn't a UFO. 

Unless the one waiting before the station was the elder version of Asahina-san, with that 
secretive smile that screamed of a hidden motive, now that would be a different story. 

No matter how you look at it, I'm still a high school student with a moderate amount of 
intelligence. Thanks to that and my past few experiences, I could more or less predict how the 
future would turn out. Asahina-san (big) was no exception. She would appear whenever I got the 
feeling that she would. So even if she showed up today, I would not be surprised.... 

"No way!" 

I forcefully parked my bike in the shade of the power poles, before proceeding to lecture myself. 

Even my thoughts had become biased! If things carried on like this, even if something did 
happen, I'd still remain perfectly calm. And that wasn't good, either. The only person who can 
stare something weird in the face and remain perfectly calm is someone who's missing a few 
screws in his brain. I want to be a normal person, or at least someone who's mentally sane! 
Although it may already be too late for that, I should at least smile when it's the time to smile. 
Now was definitely one of those moments. 

So, I tried my best, and forced myself to smile. 


The Asahina-san standing at the usual SOS Brigade meeting spot today was none other than my 
favorite version of Asahina-san. 

Standing amidst a busy crowd, she waved furiously at me with that tiny, lily hand of hers. That 
pose was enough to melt anyone's heart. 

Sporting a simple yet elegant outfit, with a different hairstyle, she was like a girl trying eagerly 
to blossom into womanhood. Seeing such a change in her, I was moved to the point of tears. 

Faced with an elegantly dressed Asahina-san, I hastily pulled my bike to a halt, and revealed a 
Koizumi-style smile, which I had rehearsed over and over in the mirror. 

"Sorry I'm late." 

Although there was still 15 minutes till the agreed time. 



"It's okay 


Asahina-san breathed a sigh of relief, as she lowered her gaze to the ground. 

"I just arrived too." 

That was followed with a smile. 

"Alright, let's get going!" 

Asahina-san stepped forward, as her hair gently bobbed up and down. 

Looking at Asahina-san with her hair tied up, an indescribable feeling slowly welled up in my 
heart. I was like one of those loyal knights in your typical RPGs, with a sworn duty to protect a 
princess who had to flee the palace due to inner conflict in the royal court and wander all over 
the world. 

Asahina-san's tiny footsteps, coupled with her childlike features, made me wonder, was she 
really a year older than me? Her footsteps could easily compare to my sister's, and to top it off, 
she was still very young-looking. Looking down at her small footsteps, an urge to protect her 
swelled up in my chest, so much so that I feared that if she turned back to look at me with those 
big, round eyes of hers, even she would feel uncomfortable. 

I mean, every single one of my actions was different compared to my usual self. Being cooped 
up in a small, awkward room together with the eccentric Haruhi, smiling Koizumi and silent 
Nagato, my actions were usually half-hearted and often chaotic. Now, there was only Asahina- 
san and me. Better still, no one knew about it. The tyrannical brigade commander, the reliable 
alien, and even the esper weren't here. This was quite the change. 

I really wanted to announce this at the top of my lungs: Deciding to go out with Asahina-san 
alone is the best decision I have ever made in my life! 

To tell you the truth, I was happy. Very happy. Walking side by side with one of North High's 
most beautiful students, even if someone chucked my Purple Diploma into the gutter, I would 
still not feel any sense of regret, seeing that the diploma was issued by a country that wasn't 
renowned for literature anyway. 


We were headed to the mall near the train station. 

Sometimes, having nothing better to do, I would accompany my family here to do the shopping. 
This mall mostly sold food and apparel, and it also had a large bookstore inside. However, that 
was Nagato's field of specialty, not mine. As I expected, Asahina-san took me to the lower level, 
where the food was sold. 



Beyond a row of shining ATMs was the store we were headed to. Specializing in dealing nothing 
but tea leaves, the racks inside were filled with all sorts of different kinds. 

"Good afternoon." 

At the sound of Asahina-san's cute greeting, the shop owner's face immediately cracked a smile 
that resembled bitumen melting on a hot summer's day. 

"Welcome, thanks for visiting us again." 

It seems that Asahina-san had already become a regular at this shop, and was on friendly terms 
with the shop owner. 

"Ehh... Which type should I buy?" 

Asahina-san muttered to herself, while surveying the different type of tea leaves printed on a 
large poster hanging by the wall, complete with their corresponding names and prices. 

Of course, my knowledge of tea leaves was less than Asahina-san's, so I was unable to give her 
any suggestions. I stood silently by her side as I inhaled the different aromas and fragrances of 
the various tea leaves, my nose itching wildly in the process. 

Turning serious at the topic of tea leaves, Asahina-san discussed with the shop owner the various 
methods of brewing tea, from the amount of leaves to the time required. I stood there listening, 
with nothing much to do or say, like a scarecrow after harvest. 

The only one who ever gave any comments on Asahina-san's tea was me. Haruhi would usually 
down the entire cup in a single gulp, probably not even noticing whether it was tea or not, while I 
can't even confirm if Nagato has any taste buds or not. Koizumi rarely voices his opinion on any 
matter anyways, so the only one left was me. 

I had already sworn that I would drink any tea that Asahina-san prepared, even if it was a silver 
goblet of hemlock. Seeking aid right after drinking should allow me to live to tell the tale. Most 
importantly, Asahina-san's feelings would not be hurt. 

Seeing that I had no advice to offer whatsoever, I continued to stand idly by the door, playing the 
role of Asahina-san's chaperone. It was not until Asahina-san finally made her decision and 
bought the type known as "High-classed-goddess" or something that I finally stopped standing 
guard like a sentry. 

"It's such a rare chance that we get to come out together—" 

Asahina-san looked at me with even politer eyes than usual. 


"Do you want to come in and drink some tea? The dango they serve here is quite tasty. We could 
ask the shop owner to help brew the tea leaves we just bought earlier " 



Even by the time all the hydrogen in the sun had been consumed and turned into helium, I would 
still be unable to find a reason to refuse her offer. In a simple shop like this, it was surprising that 
tables and chairs were prepared, as if telling me to come in and sit down. Without a second 
thought, I followed Asahina-san into the store and sat down, as the aroma of freshly brewed tea 
soon filled my nostrils. 

There was one thing which I greatly missed. 

Asahina-san seemed to care a lot about the time, as she frequently shot glances at her watch, 
unable to calm down and enjoy her tea. Her actions, however, didn't seem deliberate, and it was 
as if she was trying to hide it from me. My apologies, Asahina-san, but no matter how much you 
try to hide it, I can still notice. Because apart from looking at the time, you seem to be sighing 
every time you glance at your watch. Something must be bothering her. 

"The dango here is tasty, and the tea is also sweet smelling, just as expected from Asahina-san. 
Hmm... this is really delicious." 

Even so, I pretended not to notice Asahina-san's nervousness. I really must desist from praising 
myself for being such a kind and thoughtful soul. Oops, I'm sorry. Is it already too late? 

"Hmm..." 

Asahina-san took a bite from her dango, before glancing at her watch again. 

I suddenly had a bad feeling, like the calm before the storm. 


That's right; this whole ordeal was fishy from the start. The fact that I was going out with one of 
the top three beauties in North High, who, even in that cute winter outfit, failed to conceal that 
hot body beneath it, would be enough to propel anyone to the roof of the school hostel and yell 
about it at the top of their lungs. 

I drank my cup of tea, and as the hot fluid slowly flowed down my digestive system, my 
suspicion began to grow thicker and thicker. 

There must be a catch. 

My analysis of past experiences and data has proven that the only upperclassman in the SOS 
Brigade, Asahina Mikuru-san, is indeed a time traveler. She was sent here from the future for 
some reason, which unfortunately remains classified information. As for how she became the 
SOS Brigade's official mascot, well, that was all due to Haruhi's tyrannical ways. It definitely has 
nothing to do with her original assignment. 


That's right. Observing Haruhi is her official assignment. She's also in charge of bringing me to 
the past and the future, in order to trigger future events or to clean up the mess my past self has 



unknowingly created. Those were the assignments her superiors gave her. No matter how you 
think of it, that more or less resembles her true mission. 

So the question is, was today's date an assignment too? Was the whole tea leaves choosing 
business meant to camouflage the true purpose of events that were about to happen? Did 
Asahina-san know from the very start? Come to think of it, that expression on her face kinda 
gave everything away 

After finishing our dango, Asahina-san insisted on paying on her own. 

"It's okay, since it was me who asked you out in the first place." 

Even so, I can't let you spend so easily. 

"It's really alright. You treat us every time anyway." 

That's because that idiot Haruhi made a self-proclaimed rule that the last one to arrive would be 
the one who would treat the entire brigade to a meal, and, for some unknown reason, the last 
person to arrive is always me. In the end, I was the one to settle the bill, something you don't see 
outside the SOS Brigade. Today was different, though, and maybe it was due to the rare chance 
that the both of us got to go out alone, all the bills stuffed in my wallet seemed to be screaming 
to be let out. Perhaps they thought being spent this way would be more meaningful. 

"Let me settle this bill for once." 

Asahina-san looked at me with pleading eyes. 

"Pretty please?" 

The expression Asahina-san wore was so genuine, I naturally nodded my head in agreement. 


After that, Asahina-san and I left the supermarket. Seeing that the both of us had nowhere else to 
go, we stood transfixed on the spot, under the harsh, winter sky, staring at the crowd that passed 
before us. 

The phrase "Well, see you tomorrow" is generally used when you want to take leave after 
everything is done, but even then it still seems ungentlemanly. Of course, I'm not the type of guy 
that would bolt once my job was done, and furthermore, it was still a long time before the sun 
set. A month has passed since winter, meaning that the sun should set really, really late 

"Accompany me for a walk, okay? Kyon-kun " 


Those pleading eyes again! Faced with those facial expressions and a voice that would make 
anyone's knees turn into jelly, I found myself in no position to disagree. 



Asahina-san revealed a divine, aurora-like smile. 


"Come on, let's go this way." 

Without further hesitation, Asahina-san began walking. What a pity. I had secretly hoped 
Asahina-san would grab my hand as she walked. Seems like I had my hopes too high. 

With the winter breeze beating softly upon my shoulders, I chased after Asahina-san's petite 
figure. 


And just like that, the both of us strolled for quite some time. 

Asahina-san seemed to have decided the destination right from the beginning, as she shot 
occasional side glances at me, trying to ascertain whether I was there or not, since I followed her 
without making a sound. 

I kept my lips tightly sealed, as I followed Asahina-san's footsteps. Many questions were 
flooding my mind. The more I thought of it, the weirder today's Asahina-san seemed to be. 

Err, how should I put it? The usual Asahina-san was a weak, pitiful little girl that would 
unconsciously stir up the desire to protect her in every man's heart, and her cute little movements 
were enough to make anyone's lips curl upwards into a smile. Today, however, her every 
movement resembled mine during a physics pop quiz. 

Not to mention that she would nervously look around as she walked. 

It's as if she was afraid someone was staring at her... Wait, that's not right either. Asahina-san 
wasn't paying attention to her back, nor her front, but rather, her sides, like an elementary school 
girl looking for a missed checkpoint during orienteering. If she wasn't the cute, doll-faced beauty 
she was now, but rather a middle aged man, she would probably be arrested by the cops for 
acting suspicious in the middle of broad daylight. Even if she did get arrested, with her absolute 
charm, any offense on her part would be easily pardoned. But that wasn't the point. 

Asahina-san's actions were absolutely suspicious. 

I suddenly felt a sense of nostalgia, as I slowed down my steps. 

No, nostalgia shouldn't be the word to use, since I was used to playing here ever since I was 
born. I should have been sick of the same scenery by now, but why — 

"Ahh..." 


Now I get it. 



Ever since I had begun walking here from the train station, I had felt a sense of familiarity, as 
well as one of nostalgia. I finally understood why. 

I mean, the first city-wide search for mysterious events conducted by Haruhi was one event that 
remained deeply etched into my mind even today. Especially the memory of Asahina-san and I 
being paired together, now that was sweet. Even if I fractured my skull and had amnesia, I would 
still be unable to forget that memorable incident. 

That's right. That was the same path as the one I was walking down now, of course I would feel 
nostalgic! Even the circumstances were similar! Although it hadn't even been a year since that 
incident I felt as if 800 years had passed since then. 

Asahina-san's true identity as a time-traveler was already set into solid stone right now, but back 
then I didn't have a single clue. Not until she revealed it to me as we sat on the benches by the 
cherry blossom trees did I realize she wasn't the simple, innocent, doll-faced, well-endowed SOS 
Brigade mascot she had appeared to be. 

That was all now a thing of the past. No wonder I had felt nostalgic. 

Just like I expected, Asahina-san was indeed headed to the place I had in mind. The only 
difference from before is that aside from glancing side to side like a herbivore looking out for 
predators, she was now earnestly looking at her watch. 

Even if I had called out to her, I feared that it would have no effect whatsoever on her, as she 
continued her zombie-like stroll. 

Breathing out countless white clouds from our mouths, the both of us silently made our way 
forward, until we had finally reached our destination. 

The path of cherry blossoms by the river bank. 


Even if there was some chance the cherry trees could manage to keep their flowers until summer, 
it would take a miracle for cherry blossoms to blossom during winter. 

Although our bodies made contact, Asahina-san seemed not to care. Even after passing the bench 
where she dropped that "I am a time traveler" bombshell last year, she seemed not to care. It was 
obvious Asahina-san had lots of things on her mind right now. Just what was troubling her? 

Feeling lonely all of a sudden, I then heard a soft muttering: 

"Isn't it time yet " 


Asahina-san once again looked at her watch. 



It should happen any time now, but... 


Seeming to not realize that she was talking to her self, Asahina-san let out a sigh, and once again 
continued to look to her left and her right. 

I pretended to not notice, and concentrated on the path below me instead. 


Sigh. All of a sudden, all the enthusiasm I had for this date had completely vanished, even 
though a romantic stroll was supposed to be a lovers' rendezvous. Ah forget it. I suppose that's 
what life's about anyway. 

Forget the cherry blossoms, not even a single leaf could be found on the cherry blossom trees. 
Soon, even the trees themselves were far behind us. 

Asahina-san continued to walk forward in the upstream direction. Should we continue along this 
path, Nagato's apartment would undoubtedly come into view. Should we go even further, we 
may even reach North High. 

Thanks to our "walk", my body had begun to feel warm. It's a pity that the warmth wasn't 
induced by having Asahina-san beside me. 

Finally, we left the river bank, and proceeded in the direction of the train tracks. Oh yes, I 
remember walking together with Haruhi along this route too. 

With memories constantly resurfacing in my mind, even I had begun to feel a little uneasy. 
"Kyon-kun, over here!" 

"Huh?" 

If Asahina-san hadn't tugged at my sleeve, I would have probably kept walking straight and not 
even noticed. 

"We need to wait to cross the street." 

Without realizing it, we had already arrived at the crossroads situated near the train tracks. 
Asahina-san pointed to the opposite side of the street. The pedestrian traffic light by the zebra 
crossings showed a red figure. 

"Oh... I'm sorry." 

I immediately apologized, as I returned to Asahina-san's side. Even though the road was quiet 
and devoid of any cars, Asahina-san had insisted on waiting until the light turned green. Ah, now 
that was more like the Asahina-san I knew. 



Not even 10 seconds later, the traffic lights turned from green to red, as the pedestrian light 
flashed a healthy green. 

Asahina-san and I made it across the road at the same time. 

Just then— 

A dark shadow suddenly appeared behind my back. 

"Ahh..." 

This small scream was made by Asahina-san. 

The shadow ignored us and ran onto the zebra crossings. From the looks of it, it was probably an 
elementary school kid, who should be around my sister's age - A bespectacled, feisty fourth or 
fifth grader. 

"Ahh!!" 

This loud scream was also made by Asahina-san, and was also accompanied by a series of loud 
and chaotic noises which made my eyes bulge. 

A large vehicle was coming down the center of the road at high speed, with its tires firmly glued 
to the ground. Even if the traffic lights were currently a blaring red, the vehicle (an emerald 
green van) was sharply juxtaposing the color of the traffic lights the driver had conveniently 
failed to notice, as he continued to speed forward into the zebra crossing, with absolutely no 
signs of slowing down. 

At that time — 

The school kid who had charged into the middle of the road finally noticed that he was in danger, 
as he stopped dead in his tracks. 

The vehicle was fast approaching. The driver, who had decided to ignore the traffic lights, had 
apparently no respect for traffic rules either. An image of the young kid being run over by the 
van flashed into my mind, but at the same time, my body was already leaping into action. 

"You bastard!" 

I have no idea if the insult was directed at the kid or the driver. All I know is that I had rushed 
forward, as the world around me slowed down as if in bullet time. From a third person's point of 
view, however, everything probably happened in an instant. 


Uwaaaaa! 



It was a good thing I got there in time. Grabbing the motionless boy by the collar, I slung him 
forward with full force. Devoid of momentum, I fell down to the pavement. 

The furiously speeding van was past me in a flash. 

I could feel cold sweat trickling down my face. 

That was close, too close for comfort. The renegade van had missed me by mere centimeters. If I 
had been only the slightest bit closer, my foot would probably be as flat as the bottom of my shoe 
right now. 


Throughout winter, my body had barely sweated. Now, no thanks to the driver, I found my 
whole body sweating furiously. It was too hot to bear. 

"You f@#%ing bastard!!" 

Even though I didn't know who was driving the van, I felt my temper rising all the way to my 
temple, as I shot a killer glance at the speeding van and swore loudly. 

"Don't you know how to drive?! It's bad enough to beat the red lights, but accelerating in a 
pedestrian crossing zone? Are you retarded? Are you trying to kill someone or something? 
Asahina-san, did you happen to see his license plate number?" 

Since I was too busy falling together with the young boy, it was only natural that I failed to see 
his license plate. I looked at Asahina-san, hoping that she had noticed— 

"Now I see..." 

Huh? See what? 

A dumbstruck Asahina-san stood there with her eyes opened wide, not even moving an inch. Oh 
well, that's to be expected. It's only natural that one would be shocked witnessing an accident 
first hand. But that's not what surprised me. 

What surprised me was that Asahina-san not only wore an expression of shock, but also... 

"Now I see... So that's why... That's why I was sent here..." 

Mumbling to herself, Asahina-san looked at the young lad who had nearly lost his life. 


Her angelic features were mingled with relief, as if finally understanding everything. 



Not knowing what was going on, I continued to lie on the road, as Asahina-san strode over to us 
like a zombie, her face as pale as a sheet. It's a pity she wasn't headed towards me. Her gaze was 
fixed on the young chap beside me, who too had his buttocks glued to the ground. 

Perhaps it was due to that close encounter, the bespectacled young boy also wore an expression 
full of shock, his face as pale as Asahina-sans'. It was not until Asahina-san approached him that 
he blinked in surprise. 

"Are you hurt?" 

Asahina-san knelt beside us on the road, and placed her hands on the boy. The boy slowly shook 
his head like an android. Asahina-san's next question, though, caught me totally off-guard. 

"If so, can you tell me your name?" 

I had no idea why Asahina-san was interested in knowing his name. After all, what was the point 
of it? The boy, though, honestly answered her question. 

I'm pretty sure I had not heard his name before, as I hadn't the faintest memory of him or his 
name. Asahina-san, however, seemed to have different ears than mine. 

Even before he had finished mentioning his name, Asahina-san had stopped breathing; she did a 
faithful parody of Nagato, kneeling there without moving, her eyes staring directly at the boy's 
face. It wasn't until he had finished that Asahina-san take a deep breath, and said: 

"I see, so you are..." 

The young boy's mouth hung wide open. After narrowly avoiding being run over by a renegade 
truck, he was now approached by a beautiful girl who asked him for his name. No matter who it 
was, the experience was enough to freak anybody out. I understand what you're going through, 
glasses-boy. 

However, Asahina-san appeared dead serious. 

"Then, you have to promise me—" 

The look of anxiety she wore on her face was one I had never seen before. 

"No matter what happens, you have to look out for cars. Be it on the road, or when boarding a 
public vehicle, or in an airplane, or a train, or even a boat... Be careful not to trip or fall... And 
don't drown. Please, no matter where or when, be sure to take care of yourself, okay? Can you 
promise me that much?" 


The boy must have been shocked, because I certainly was. You don't have to be that direct, 
Asahina-san, and even if you did, couldn't you have at least toned it down a little? 



Pretty please...? 


Hearing a tear-faced Asahina-san trying to sound as sincere as possible, I made up my mind to 
shout "YES, MADAM!" in the young lad's place. Just as I was about to do so 

"Okay," 

The young boy nodded and promised her. He continued to stare at Asahina-san, looking as 
confused as I was. 

"I'll be careful." 

He said each word stiffly, as his head bobbed up and down endlessly, which resembled Humpty- 
Dumpty sitting on his wall. 

Asahina-san was apparently still not satisfied, as she stretched out her pinky. 

"Let's make a pinky promise then." 

Looking at a stuttering boy make a pinky promise with Asahina-san, I felt a sharp pain in my 
chest. I believe it was something called jealousy. I had privately hoped and wished that I was the 
only person allowed to do that. But seeing that he was just a kid after all, I decided not to fake a 
fall in order to disturb them. I breathed a sigh of relief as Asahina-san finally stood up. It seems 
I'm far from reaching maturity, after all. Is that good or bad? Don't ask me, even I don't know. 

But just then, I thought of another way to disturb them. Pointing at the traffic light, I said: 

"Asahina-san, the light's turning green anytime soon. It's dangerous to remain in the center of the 
road. 

The green pedestrian light had begun to flash rapidly. 

"Ok." 

Even as she stood up, Asahina-san continued to eye the bespectacled boy. As if realizing this, the 
young boy lowered his head and avoided her gaze. 

"Thanks for saving me at the nick of time. I'll be careful in the future." 

Then, with an air of politeness, he said, 

"Well then, I should get going soon." 

After bowing from his waist towards us, he trotted across the street, and disappeared without a 
trace. 



Asahina-san stood there unmoving. Her eyes were still glued to her precious little gemstone, as 
she continued to look in his direction even after he had disappeared from our sight. 

I couldn't take it any longer. 

"Asahina-san, the light has already turned red. We should hurry." 

I forcefully pulled the beauty dressed in a winter outfit off the street. As I slowly shook her by 
her shoulder, I realized that her soft body was similar to that of Shamisens', who had for some 
reason decided to share a bed with me. Wrapping my arms tightly around her must undoubtedly 
feel great, especially in a moment like this. But of course I wouldn't do something like that. 

As the light turned completely red— 

"Sob..." 

The sound came from somewhere positioned diagonally below me. The source was Asahina-san, 
and the reason it came out all muffled was probably due to her burying her face on my shoulder. 

What the? — This was what I first thought. 

Asahina-san's face was buried on my shoulder, as her own shoulders trembled furiously. It didn't 
seem like she was laughing. 

"Sob, sob..." 

A trail of crystal clear tears flowed out of her tightly shut eyes, moistening my shirt. Asahina-san 
then grabbed on to me like a little girl, her tears flowing continuously down her porcelain cheeks. 

"Wh... What's the matter, Asahina-san?! Say something! Asahina-san?!" 

I had been in a couple of sticky situations in the past, but this was undoubtedly the stickiest 
situation I had ever been in. Why is Asahina-san crying? That young boy was saved, isn't that 
supposed to be a good thing? It's not like anyone died... You should be happy now, not crying 
your eyes out. Or was the impact of the entire incident too great for Asahina-san to bear? Is she 
developing symptoms of shock? 

"That's not it." 

Asahina-san said through her sobs. 

" I feel useless. I k-know nothing... I c-can't do a-anything..." 


I'm even more confused now. 



Even then all she did was cry furiously, as if losing all will to speak. Just like how Shamisen 
clawed at me whenever I picked him up in fear of falling, Asahina-san clawed at my shirt, 
clinging on to it tightly, as she continued to bury her face in it. 

What's going on here? 

My brain resembled a miniature whirlpool. There was only one thing I was certain of. 

Today's activities had finally come to an end. This date-like invitation initiated by Asahina-san 
herself had finally gone in a huge circle, and ended where it had started, in a grand fashion. 

This was a conclusion anyone could reach, even without the deductive mind of Koizumi Itsuki. 


I knew that I couldn't stand there forever, being clawed by a crying sempai under the winter sky. 

This was because many casual pedestrians had already slowed down their steps, and directed 
their gaze to the odd couple standing by the street. What are you people doing outside in this 
cold weather? 

"Asahina-san, we should find a place to sit, a place where you can calm down... Err, can you 
walk on your own?" 

Although she still insisted on burying her face on my shoulder, she nevertheless gave a weak 
nod. 

I stepped very carefully, trying my best to match Asahina-san's depressed footsteps. Walking 
beside a sniveling Asahina-san, I slowed down my footsteps, while silently lamenting my fate. It 
was what I always wanted, and not. Sigh. Now the only thing I hope for is to not be noticed by 
any boys from North High. If word got out that I made Asahina-san cry, the whole Asahina 
Mikuru cult following might very well be after my head. 

"Where should we go then..." 

A place where we would not draw too much attention, get a good rest as well as get out of the 
cold, did such a place exist? The only place that I could think of would be the cafe. However, 
sitting opposite a crying girl in a cafe was almost the equivalent of suicide. 

Actually, I had noticed that the building near the street where this entire incident took place 
happened to be Nagato's apartment. If I were to ask her, she would have probably opened the 
door for us, but my instincts told me it was better not to do so. 


So, there was only one place left to go. The holy grounds located near Nagato's apartment, the 
park which held many fond memories. Seeing that we had already passed the bench by the river 



bank, and the urgency of the situation, it would only be appropriate that we use that OTHER 
bench, which held even more memories. 


At least we would be able to rest our tired legs there. Who knows, maybe someone would even 
pop out from the bushes behind. 

With weather cold enough to freeze anyone to death, it's no wonder no one bothered to visit the 
park. As expected, that bench remained empty, enjoying the harsh winter winds by itself. 

I sat Asahina-san down on the bench, before sitting down beside her, ensuring that there was a 
small gap between us. Sneaking a glance at her face, I noticed that she still had two trails of tears 
down her porcelain face. 

I rummaged through my pockets, searching for a handkerchief, but alas, all my hands felt were 
the fabric used to make my clothes. Damn, how could I forget to bring them today? What could I 
use in place of a handkerchief to wipe away Asahina-san's pearl-like tears? Just as I was 
panicking, and on the verge of tearing off my sleeve— 

Thunk. 

Something soft suddenly fell lightly upon my shoulders. That soft something was none other 
than Asahina-san's neck. After round one of sobbing in the streets, was she coming back for 
round two? The way she rested her head upon my shoulder truly touched my heart. However, I 
refrained myself from making any sudden movements, in fear of causing a misunderstanding. 
That's because this situation greatly resembles that time. I had been flicked on my forehead once, 
I don't want something similar to happen again this time. 

"I'll go get some coffee for you, okay?" 

I had thought that this was a brilliant idea, but to my surprise, Asahina-san gently shook her 
head. 

"Or would you like some oolong tea?" 

The maroon head of hair once again shook sideways. 

I tried my best to picture the automated drinks vendor's menu in my head, as I continued to ask. 
"Then what about—" 

" I'm sorry." 

A weak voice finally reached my ears. Asahina-san still had her head on my shoulder, and as a 
result I couldn't see her face. But even without looking, I could probably guess what expression 
she had on her face right now. When Asahina-san apologizes, it means that she's really sorry. 



I decided to remain silent, and let Asahina-san do the talking. 


"The reason I invited you out was to save that boy. I too had no clue earlier, but now I finally 
understand. It's all for this, and this only..." 

Alright, go on. 

"F-following the orders of my superiors, I asked you out. The time, place and even the places we 
should visit, I was merely following orders. It was all to protect that boy, to see to it that that 
accident would not happen... That was my mission." 

Superiors? Asahina-san (big)'s secretive smiled drifted into my mind. 

"Wait a second. If that's the case, you could have asked your superiors to make things a little 
clearer. Like for instance, stand guard at that crossroad at this specific time, your mission is to 
protect this kid known as blablabla from an accident. Wouldn't that be better?" 

"Well... I also wish for clearer orders from my superiors. The problem is that they refuse. They 

refuse to let me know anything. It must be because I'm not capable enough Just like today, all 

I could do was follow orders..." 

Once again, Asahina-san (big) flashed into my mind. 

"You shouldn't think like that..." 

After hearing me utter out that statement, the head of long, maroon hair shook violently, the 
hardest it had shook the entire day. 

"No, that must be it! Why else would they lay such an important mission on my shoulders 
without telling me beforehand? It must be because I'm so useless " 

After that, she fell silent, as the breaths of white air coming out from her mouth, which had 
disappeared as she was talking a moment ago, once again returned. It seems her mood tallies 
with the topic. 

"Asahina-san, who was that kid?" 

Her nose still making loud sniveling noises, Asahina-san paused for a while before saying: 

" That little boy is a very important person in the future. It's all because of him that I'm able 

to come here. If he were to die, everything would be over..." 

Her voice grew softer and softer, until it was on the verge of vanishing completely. 

"I'm sorry... I can't tell you any more than that..." 



In other words, that unknown kid could not die now at any cost. In order to prevent this from 
happening, Asahina-san was sent to lead me to that place — That was the true rescue plan. 

If I had been only a second too late in grabbing that kid away, he would have been plowed 
straight into by that van. I'm afraid I didn't know how things would've turned out then, but I 
daresay they wouldn't have been pretty. Without this minor miracle, the probability of that kid 
saying goodbye to this world would've been very high. 

"Eh?" 

Wait a second, which was the true turn of events? I saved that kid alright, that was what just 
happened. Then, what about the future? In the future Asahina-san had come from, wouldn't this 
kid be already dead in the first place? But since that was a no-no, the time travelers decided to 
send Asahina-san to protect him... 

No, that's not right. Something's weird. 

I saved that kid, meaning that he successfully avoided being run over, that should be what really 
happened. That is to say that in the true turn of events, the kid never ever met with an accident. 
Otherwise, Asahina-san would be unable to come here from the distant future. But if he never 
met with an accident, there wouldn't be a point in sending Asahina-san to the past to save him. 
But that would result in the kid being run over by the truck, and if he got run over by a truck, 
then he wouldn't have been able to make time travel possible. Which is to say ... 

"Ouch, my head hurts..." 

My brain started to ache. 

No matter how you thought about it, something wasn't right. Whenever I thought about anything 
that was above my level, you would probably be able to smell the scent of something burning 
coming out from my ears. 

"I don't get it at all." 

I might just as well ask. 

"Did that kid truly meet with an accident? Which is the true turn of events? I'm really confused 
now." 

Asahina-san shook her head, and said in a mysterious voice: 

"We are not the only ones from the future." 


"There are others who do not wish for the existence of time travelers, or the possibility of time 
travel." 



An emerald green van. Driven by a driver full of killing intent. 

"You don't mean to tell me " 

I didn't need to wait for her answer. Even past experiences pointed to the same thing. 

One similar person was Asakura Ryouko. Although she was also an organic living interface 
created by the Integrated Data Sentient Entity like Nagato, the two of them seemed to have 
different opinions on Haruhi. It wouldn't be a surprise if they came from totally different 
factions. 

Also there was the other group aside from the "Organization" that Koizumi had mentioned 
earlier. Koizumi had mentioned that these two factions were currently at odds with each other. 

Finally there was whoever had made the freshest memories in my mind, the faction who planned 
the entire Snow Mountain incident. They even created a sealed space so strong even Nagato had 
failed to destroy it. "Our" (Referring to the SOS Brigade) Enemy - That's what Koizumi called 
them. 

After such a short period of time, are your hands itching again? The Enemy. What an annoying 
name. 

Those who planned on killing an otherwise happy, young lad who would one day contribute 
greatly to mankind, what were they thinking? Those who insisted on making the young lad's life 
miserable, where were they hiding? 

There are others who do not wish for the existence of time travelers, of the possibility of time 
travel. 

Who do you mean by "others"? 

"That's..." 

Asahina-san's cherry lips slowly trembled. For a moment, it appeared that she was about to say 
something, but she finally decided not to say anything, as she kept her lips tightly shut. 

"...I can't tell you that yet." 

With that, she once again entered her sniveling state. 

"That's why I feel as if I'm useless. It's the truth. I really am useless. I can't do anything to help 
you. I can't even help you understand. I'm really worthless." 


That's not true. 



Asahina-san, you're not the least bit useless at all. It's the restrictions that have been placed upon 
you that have made you unable to shine. And the one who's placing those restrictions on you, is 
none other than the future version of yourself. 

But of course, I couldn't tell her that. 

This I promised Asahina-san (Big) on the first 7th of July. We even made a pinky promise. 
"Please don't let her know about my existence." 

As for how long I should keep this promise, I had no idea. And since I had no idea, I should 
probably stick to keeping it a secret from Asahina-san herself. Even I didn't know why was I 
being so stubborn. But I had a feeling that it would be better not to say anything for the time 
being. 

I wonder what she thinks of me for being silent? Asahina-san continued, in a depressed voice: 

"It's just like what happened just now. You were the one who saved that kid, Kyon-kun. We time 
travelers are prohibited from getting involved directly in any incidents concerning the past..." 

Is that so? 

"The only ones who can alter the past, are the ones who live in it. Anything other than that is 
strictly against the rules " 

So that's why you needed my help? 

"It's what my superiors told me to do. All I did was follow instructions, even though I didn't 
know why I had to act that way. Thinking of this, I feel like... an idiot." 

You are no such thing. 

"I've always hoped that my superiors could tell me more. That's why I wrote many letters to 
them, but they were always refused. My superiors must really feel that I'm useless. That must be 
it." 

I've told you that's not the case. 

I couldn't bear watching this, as I finally opened my mouth and said: 

"Asahina-san, you're definitely not useless. The truth is, you've done a lot, no matter whether it's 
for me, the SOS Brigade, or even the whole world, so don't fret over it." 

Asahina-san suddenly lifted her head and looked at me, but then she quickly averted her tearful 
gaze to the floor. 



" But, the only thing I've done is dress up. It's the only thing I'm capable of..." Her voice was 

really depressed. "And even During "that time", I had no clue what was going on " 

This I could finally understand. "On the 18th of December"— 

"That's not true!" 

For someone like me, my attitude could be considered quite serious right now. Apparently 
Asahina-san had the same thoughts in mind, as she raised her head, as if startled by my sudden 
shout. 

I can swear, Asahina-san, you're more than just a tea serving mascot. Images of Asahina-san 
(big) surfaced in my mind. 

Snow White. It was thanks to her hint that I was able to return from that Sealed Space. 

7th July, three years ago. After going back in time with Asahina-san, I got a hint from Asahina- 
san (big) as to what to do, before finally seeking Nagato's aid. 

And then, when reality was altered, she was the one who helped restore it — 

That's right, I haven't told them in full about that incident yet, maybe because it's probably too 
much for them to digest. I plan to wait until some time had passed before I tell them. I just told 
them briefly that we were going to save the world. The three of us, Nagato, Asahina-san, and I, 
then went back to that time where I encounter a dying "me" on the ground and Nagato's 
"alternate" form, before putting everything to an end. I believe that this event remains fresh in 
Asahina-san's memory. The only difference is that she, unlike me and Nagato, won't notice a 
future version of herself. This was what Asahina-san (big) had planned. 

I dare say that both small and large versions of Asahina-san were the Asahina-san I knew, and 
not the "altered" version of Asahina-san who didn't even recognize me. In Nagato's words, both 
of different times but of the same entity. Or something like that. 


This Asahina-san was just acting according to her orders, but deep down I knew that the one who 
was issuing these orders was none other than the elder version of Asahina-san herself. Asahina- 
san (big) should know what should be done and what should not. I mean, it's her own self we're 
talking about. 

If it was anything that Asahina-san (small) should know, she would have told her in the first 
place. Seeing that Asahina-san had not revealed anything, I thought it was best that I kept quiet. 
"At least, don't let her know who was there in the first place." This was what Asahina-san (big) 
had asked of me. 



Of course, I could tell you that in the near future, you would become an even more beautiful 
woman than now, and even cross the boundaries of time and space in order to assist me. It would 
be no difficult task to me. For example, during the second time I returned to the 7th of July three 
years ago, I could have easily awakened the "me" sleeping on the bench, and spat out everything 
I knew. In other words, to tell or not to tell, it was all up to me, as simple as that. 

But of course I didn't do that. Although no one told me I couldn't do that, it was specifically 
because no one had told me I could do that that I didn't do that. Thinking back about it, I feel as 
if I've made the right choice. 

One day, this little version of Asahina-san will go back to the future, before returning as the elder 
version of Asahina-san to once again assist us. Although the current Asahina-san was an 
indispensable treasure to the SOS Brigade, as well as the club room's private maid, there would 
come a day when she would have to return anyway. Everything was tightly connected. Only with 
the present could there be the future. If the present was mingled with all sorts of other foreign 
matter, who knows what the future will turn out to be — 

I suddenly realized something. 

"That's right!" 

I wanted to open my mouth and spill everything out, but I knew I couldn't. My desire to do so 
conflicted with my better sense of judgement - 1 finally understood what it felt like. So that's 
how it feels. 

Thinking about what happened last summer, during the first city- wide search for mysterious 
events, Asahina-san and I had walked side-by-side to the row of cherry blossom trees by the 
riverbank, where she revealed to me her true identity as a time traveler and tried to explain the 
concepts behind time travel. Of course, whether that counts as an explanation, I have no idea. All 
I know is that it had something to do with time planes, cartoons and drawings, while having 
nothing to do with water. 

At that time, no matter what I asked, her answer would always be: 

"Classified information." 

What I'm going through now should be roughly what she went through then. That's right, now 
wasn't the time to tell her everything, but... 

"Asahina-san." 

I still wanted to console her. That's why I opened my mouth. 


What is it?" Asahina-san asked, her bright eyes opened wide, staring straight at me. 



"Erm... It's like this. Actually, Asahina-san... well... how do you put this... Err... You're definitely 
not just Haruhi's plaything. And err... how did it go again? Something like... there's always 
something below the surface... groan-" 

I gave up thinking about the proverb halfway through my sentence. No matter what I said, it 
would be full of plot holes. How annoying- I had wanted to console her so that she would stop 
feeling so down, but apparently making up lines as I spoke was not my specialty, hence the half- 
assed sentences you see above. If it was Koizumi, he would surely be able to come out with 
some beautiful sounding nonsense which I would undoubtedly be annoyed at. However, a man 
should always know his limits. I couldn't always run to Nagato or Koizumi for help. This was my 
problem after all. I should solve it by my own. 

Even so, this was just like giving a baboon the latest, high end computer but not telling him how 
to use it. Although I really wanted to console Asahina-san, my mind was totally void of any 
useful vocabulary. 

"Erm... I mean..." 

Maybe some physical stimulant would help. Perhaps it would speed up the flow of impulse. With 
that in mind, I knocked my skull with my fists. Nothing happened - my mind was still as blank 
as before. 

" Err... Umm..." 

In the end, all I did was err and umm, as if waiting for the sun to set. 

That was until Asahina-san said— 

"Kyon-kun, you don't need to say any more." 

I immediately lifted my head, and found myself staring into Asahina-san's confused eyes. Her 
mouth, however, was curled into a smile. 

"You don't need to say any more." 

She repeated. 

"Whatever you're trying to say, I understand." 

Asahina-san widened her smile, as she gently nodded. 

Huh? You understand? Just what do you understand? I haven't said anything— 


You really don't have to say anymore. This is already enough. 



Asahina-san's previously tightly closed lips parted open, as she looked at me with warm eyes. 
There was a faint but detectable trace of understanding in her eyes. 

I suddenly realized something else. 

Realize what, you say? Do you still need to ask? 

What I realized was - Asahina-san had finally realized. 

She may have realized, from my stuttering speech patterns, the true message I was trying to 
convey. Even though I never told her out loud. But why didn't I? There are only a few 
explanations to this question. 

"Ahh." 

Just as I was about to open my mouth to speak, Asahina-san gently raised her left hand, and 
placed her warm index finger on my freezing cold lips. 

That was my cue to stop. 

There wasn't any reason to continue on. My thoughts had already reached Asahina-san. The both 
of us remained silent. 

"Yeah." 

Asahina-san slowly lifted her index finger, and placed it on her own lips. That sent a wave of 
ripples through my heart. 




Asahina-san slowly lifted her index finger, and placed it on her own lips. That sent a wave of ripples 
through my heart. 

"That's right." 

That was all I could say. 

Silence is gold, speech is silver. Wasn't that the case? There wasn't any pitcher in this world who 
needed to babble to the catcher what his next pitch was going to be like. There were highly 
convenient ways of communication in this world, such as through signals or body language. 
Simple matters need not be expressed through speech. 

Why was that so? Well, it's because even without saying it aloud, the both of us had already 
understood what was in each other's hearts. 

Since communication was possible even without the medium of speech, why bother? There was 
no need for vocabulary, no need for long winded speeches, and it certainly conserved energy. 

The only response I could make, was to smile. 

That was enough. Any thing that couldn't be conveyed via speech would just have to be 
conveyed through the heart. 


The following Monday. 

The time was after school. Everyone gathered at the club room as always, trying the newly 
bought tea. After everyone had finished, the SOS Brigade commander said: 

"Say, Kyon." 

Unlike me, Haruhi had no sense of gratitude, as she downed the entire cup of burning, 70 degrees 
Celsius tea in less than two seconds. After all that trouble Asahina-san and I went through, 
couldn't you at least taste the damned tea? 

"What?" 

I replied as I secretly snuck a side glance at the smiling Asahina-san. 

"Ahh... Do you want seconds?" 


Asahina-san picked up the kettle, preparing to pour some tea into Haruhi's empty cup. 



Haruhi suddenly leaned forward, and placed her chin in her hands, before uttering out some 
strange lines: 


"I happen to have a habit of talking to myself." 

Is that so? This was new. After knowing you for almost an entire year, this is the first time I've 
heard you've got such a habit. 

"Even if there were others beside me, I would still carry on." 

Before that, you should get a mental checkup. 

"So, I'm going to start talking to myself again. If by any chance any of you hear it, please bear 
with me." 

What are you trying to say? But before I could say that, Haruhi suddenly raised her voice, and 
said: 

"You know, there's a smart and honest kid living near my house. He wears spectacles that 
resembles a professor and looks really smart in them. His name is..." 

Haruhi mentioned a name that I was sure I had heard just recently. My back suddenly started to 
sweat, but that wasn't because of the heat. 

Asahina-san froze on the spot. 

"Soooooooooooooooooooometimes, I go over to help him with his homework. Which is why I 
went to his house yesterday. But that's when he said: The bunny girl's together with a guy." 

Haruhi let out a spine-chilling smile. 

"When we filmed that movie in autumn, he just so happened to be nearby. He had a really deep 
impression of Mikuru-chan in a bunny suit. Since we were on the same topic anyway, I asked 
him what that guy looked like. This is what he drew." 

Haruhi took out a piece of paper that was clearly torn out from an exercise book. There was a 
rough sketch of a highly familiar face. Hmm... how come it seems like the one I would usually 
see every morning while looking in the mirror? Wait, that should be me. No matter how you look 
at it, it was my portrait drawn on the paper. 

"Fufufufufufu-" 

Haruhi suddenly let out a deep laugh. 



That kid turned out to be a big mouthed yet talented artist! Isn't he supposed to become a scholar 
some day? Don't tell me he aspires to become an artist in the future? If I had known this, I would 
have bribed him, so that he would become temporarily mute and disabled. 

My vision blurred for about three seconds, as I waited to see if a saint would suddenly descend to 
save the world. 

Asahina-san was trembling all over, and her voice seemed to have lost its function. In a situation 
like this, chances that a new character would burst in were too slim, so I desperately swept my 
eyes around the club room. 


After looking into Nagato's negative four degrees Celsius eyes, for some reason I felt sick to the 
stomach. 

On the other hand, Koizumi did nothing but smile, as if thoroughly enjoying the entire situation. 
Wait a minute. These guys wouldn't have known everything from the start, would they? 


"Hmm~?" 


Haruhi's expression resembled one who had eaten an onigiri covered with blended chili paste and 
crushed psychedelic mushrooms , that is to say, one who wanted to laugh but was trying to 
restrain herself. 

"Spit it out. Where did you and Mikuru-chan go yesterday, and what did you do? Don't worry, I 
promise I won't get mad." 

I shot a sideways glance at Asahina-san, who resembled a frog drenched in green paint, her face 
green all over. I was one to talk, though, as cold sweat trickled endlessly down my face, like a 
toad being surrounded by three dozen serpents. 

It must have been my illusion. For a moment I thought I saw Haruhi's aura rise up behind her, 
before turning into a violent display of fireworks, which proceeded to smash the glass window 
pane behind Nagato.. Or some illusion of that kind of extent. 

"I'm sorry." 

Koizumi stood up straight, as if wanting to avoid the invisible fireworks, before picking up his 
chair and moving away from the window pane. 

Then, he made a gesture with both of his hands, and continued to smile like he used to. The only 
thing he missed out was the words "Please carry on." 


Damn you Koizumi! I'll deal with you afterward by murdering you using big bets in poker! I'll 
remember this! 



A-ah... About t-that... 


The task at hand was to create a lie that would convince Haruhi. But right now, I really don't 
have the time to think of one, so could anyone out there please help me? If possible please text 
me, because even a courier service wouldn't be able to make it here in time. 

Faced with my stuttering self, Haruhi decided to repeat her question. 

"Well spit it out, and I want it to be so long and precise that even Koizumi-kun, Yuki and I can 
understand. Or else..." 

Haruhi took in a deep breath, and revealed a bright smile, before saying: 

"The both of you will be punished severely! That's right, how's this one seem?" 

Haruhi announced a punishment so inhuman that even the blood stained gates of hell would 
tremble after hearing it. I looked at Asahina-san and found that she was shaking. 

Just like I was. 

What happened in the clubroom afterwards, this I think needs no further explanation. 

Faced with Haruhi's sadistic smile, Nagato's even colder-than-usual expression and Koizumi's 
annoying smirk which seemed to suggest he was mildly enjoying this, I desperately racked my 
brain for some sort of explanation, like a lost soul furiously trying to squeeze out some water 
from a dry sponge in the middle of the Sahara Desert. Beside me, Asahina-san was thrown into a 
total state of panic, together with the kettle, tea leaves and all. 

I really don't think I need to explain any further. You guys can probably guess the rest. 


Author's notes 

Author's Notes 


Logically speaking there should be a long segment featured in this volume, but I decided to 
release this combination of medium to short stories. Unexpectedly, this actually continues the 


order of long segment, long segment, short segment, long segment and short segment in a 
recursive manner. It really is a coincidence so don't think too much about it. 


Live A Live 

The annual school festival is something that would leave one's heart dangling if the events of the 
day were left undescribed. As such, this piece is one where I am driven by the urge to think 
through the storyline clearly in my head and put it to paper. As for the lead role... Haruhi takes 
the stage. 


Asahina Mikuru's Adventure Episode 00 

Let's do a Counterattack ofNagato Yuki Episode 00 and conclude the sonata with the Awakening 
of Koizumi Itsuki Episode 00 altogether- although I don't know if this is feasible. Maybe I just 
want to experience the thrills of being a director. 'Haru' of Haruhi didn't appear once in here. 


Charmed at First Sight LOVER 

This interlude occurs after Disappearence and before Snow Mountain Syndrome. I've always 
loved American Football and watch the game often. It's a pity that Japanese wireless television 
channels rarely broadcast the games live and mostly skip to the end score. Nagato is the 
undisputed lead here no matter how you look at it. 


Where did the Cat Go? 

I was forced to come up with this story because Koizumi mentions the need for a cat in Snow 
Mountain Syndrome. Other than that I wanted to put my deduction to the test. The stars here 
would be Haruhi and Tsuruya-san. 


The Melancholy of Asahina Mikuru 

The long segment for the next volume will be on time and will be directly correlated to this 
piece. The lengthier piece that I am working on today becomes that much easier to pen thanks to 



me slaving away and frying my brain cells trying to connect the magazine parts with the newly 
written long segments. Most importantly however is to give the readers an easier time to follow 
along, and to ask for nothing more. 


It is an honor to see this series continue to its sixth volume. I have only gratitude other than 
gratitude from my heart. This book is able to come to its fruition due to the assistance of 
everyone that toiled in the process, and especially due to the readers that have supported this 
series throughout the way. I offer the sincerest of thanks to everyone. 

With that, see you in the next volume. 


Tanigawa Nagaru 



Suzumiya Haruhi Volume Seven: The 

Intrigues of Suzumiya Haruhi 

Cover Page 



Inside Flap 






Prologue Flap 



Bookmark 





Prologue 


Suzumiya Haruhi has become very pensive lately. 

Even though she is often melancholic and sometimes easily agitated, she is actually very 
sociable. Even so, she's been surprisingly tranquil these past couple days. This quietness from 
who-knows-where even scares people like me. 

Of course, it isn't like her to stay quiet, and it definitely isn't a change of heart. Haruhi never 
doubts herself. Even if her personality has a slight or subtle change, she will never question 
herself. Anyway, if such a change were to happen, I would be put in a troublesome situation. So 
at this moment in time, I wouldn't bother to try and correct her. How should I put this... there's a 
type of quietness that's like a continuously radiating kirlian photograph in which the light has 
gone from burning red to a duller orange which is subtly surrounding her. 

Of all the people in the class only one, at most two will be able to realize that she is not quite the 
same as usual. Of these two, one is me. 

Ever since I entered high school, she has always been sitting behind me and we meet after school 
every day. So, I can say without exaggerating that if anyone has noticed anything it would have 
to be me. But even though I say she's calm now, that bright flare can still give the all-knowing a 
run for their money. As soon as it bursts forth, the energy that will not stop until it succeeds will 
show its true colors. 

Note that while she only got second at the event the school organized at the end of last month, 
Haruhi got first in the marathon held at the school at the beginning of this month. By the way, 
the winner of the first event was none other than Nagato Yuki, who also got second in the 
marathon. In a nutshell, the leaders of the SOS Brigade and the literature Club are both amazing 
and fit to be grouped with the Warlords in the past. And yet again, the school was left to rack its 
brains and try and figure out what the Brigade was doing. One such student who wondered this 
was me, a member. 

If I know only one thing, it's that once Haruhi displays that kind of expression and spirit, I can be 
sure that she's planning something. And at the moment she has thought it through, her face will 
transform back to its enchanting, smiling form. 

Oddly, I don't actually remember when I discovered this. When was it? I tried flipping through 
the history book in my mind, searching through for the record that displayed her quiet side 
gradually disappearing. 

A calm moment is the accurate, unmistakable prediction of a giant tsunami. It has always been 
like that. 

So 

It is now the beginning of February, the cold winter is nearing its end. 


New Years has come and gone, and we left the troublesome old year behind almost a month ago. 
If time seems to have flown by, it's probably because you've kept yourself busy doing a lot of 
New Years related things during that first month. 

Here, I'm hoping that time will reverse. I have no clue what Haruhi is planning, since I was busy 
coming to terms with my own situation first. Starting to reminisce about the past year in 
February is a bit early, but since what I have to say is not unsayable, I might as well tell it 
enthusiastically and completely. 

At that time, I only had one motto: Finish the unfinished, one by one. As fast as possible. 

When I made up my mind, it was when we were still on the winter trip. It took quite a bit of time 
before I set it in motion. 

This is the story that starts January the second at the train station we always pass on normal days. 


The vacation that had us fighting through a snowstorm and imprisoned in a mysterious mansion 
on the mountain finally ended on the second day of the new year. The SOS Brigade group that 
set out for the winter trip to that mountain villa finally returned home. 

"Whew, I'm back." 

Haruhi said hello to our little town, then turned to face the sunset, closing one eye. 

"I can finally be comfortable. Even though the snow mountain wasn't too bad, the air you're used 
to is the best, although it is a bit stale." 

Arakawa the butler, Mori the maid and the Tamaru brothers were all long gone, since they don't 
go this way to get home. So, the only ones claiming the baggage at the train station in front of 
our hometown are the tireless and extremely healthy Haruhi and Tsuruya-san, Asahina-san, who 
my sister was clinging to, unwilling to separate, the forever impassive Nagato, the exhausted 
Koizumi, the extremely weary me and the cargo, Shamisen. Ha, that should be enough, I guess. 

"Dismissed for today." 

Haruhi gave the appearance that she'd had lots of fun. 


"Everyone can get some rest. Tomorrow will be the first time this year we visit the temples and 
shrines nearby, meet here at nine. Oh, Tsuruya-san, do you have any plans?" 



The energetic vigor that's already making plans for the next day after the vacation ended is very 
enviable. The problem is, my body, representing that of a normal human’s, doesn't have a 
perpetual motion machine built into it. But Tsuruya-san, the person whose vitality can somehow 
keep up with Haruhi's, said, 

"Sorry everyone, I have to go to Switzerland tomorrow. I'll bring some souvenirs back. Please, 
take this change and donate it!" 

After saying this, she dug into her pockets and showed her clinking and clanging change to 
Asahina-san. 

"This is New Year's money!" 

She said, giving all her change to my sister. 

"See you next semester-" 

She waved, leaving the train station with a bright, smiling face. Her posture was relaxed and 
cheerful. How was this girl raised? For future reference, I want to visit her parents and see what 
they say. 

Haruhi kept waving until we lost sight of her around the corner of those apartments. 

"Then, let's go home. Everyone be careful on the road. It's still the winter trip until you get 
home." 

If anything were to happen on the way home, Koizumi and I physically wouldn't be able to take 
it anymore. Nothing weird should show up on the way home from the station, anyway. 

I glanced at Nagato. Her abnormality inside the mysterious hotel on the mountain had vanished 
into thin air; she was now back to her emotionless, impossible-to-read state. As I thought this, 
her eyes moved and met mine. She nodded her head slightly; that wasn't just an illusion, I think. 

I looked over at Asahina-san. She had been relaxed and laid-back during the trip. The carefree- 
ness had become nervousness while in the (Hall of Snow Mountain Syndrome), but upon 
reflection, this was for the best. Now is when she really made an entrance. I stared at her, full of 
affection, but sadly, she didn't notice my look at all and continued talking with my sister as if 
they were the same age. 

"Well, see you tomorrow! Don't be late. Oh, and don't lose your pochibukuro, there'll be stalls 
everywhere tomorrow." 

After Haruhi said that, I took hold of my sister's hand, held onto the box Shamisen was in, said 
farewell to Haruhi and Asahina-san and got on the public bus. 


See you later, Mikuru-chan! 



While I was pulling my struggling sister to her seat, I saw Asahina-san keep looking over and 
waving to my sister. Sorry, but I don't really feel like waving now. Well, if it were Haruhi or 
Koizumi, I would definitely shout goodbye. 

So, as soon as I got home and liberated myself from Shamisen and my sister, after a few minutes, 
I called two particular brigade members I had just left at the stop. 

Why? 

Because I wanted to finish what I regret leaving incomplete as soon as possible. 

And since it was because I was lazy that this awkward situation occurred, I'm very sorry, so I 
want to teach the old, lazy me a lesson. We should go to the me from a while before the trip. 

That time at the mysterious mansion on the mountain, it was because Nagato and Koizumi were 
bright that they managed to keep the worst-case scenario from occurring. But no one can 
guarantee that something like that will never happen again. Actually, I think that this had to 
happen someday. The fun at the mountain villa was delayed because of this problem, and the 
surroundings even disappeared along with the members. There was enough time afterwards at 
Tsuruya-san's resort while we played Fukuwarai and Sugoroku for me to make a decision. 

I have to go. I have to return to that time-space with Nagato and Asahina-san. 

Yes, back to the dawn of December the eighteenth... 

There's no time to rest off the weariness. First, I phoned Asahina-san, and since we had just 
separated, she was quite surprised. 

"What's the matter, Kyon-kun?" 

"There's a place I want to go with you. Today, preferably." 

"Eh ? Where?" 

"December the eighteenth of last year." 

She was both shocked and puzzled. 

"Ehhh ? Wha- What's happening?" 

"Please take me and Nagato into the past, two weeks ago, to be precise. Then we can work 
together to try and reverse time." 


"Tha-, me send no, that device cannot be used when I feel like it. It requires lots of 

consideration and authorization by many other people." 



I bet that authorization will be easy to get. The vision floating in my mind's eye is of Mikuru 
(Big) winking at me, even blowing me a kiss. 


"Asahina-san, contact your boss or somebody like that right now. Explain it to them, and say that 
I want to take you and Nagato back to the dawn of December the eighteenth." 

I guess since I was brimming with confidence, Asahina-san's sighs that occasionally leaked 
through the phone became silent. 

"Wait, wait a minute." 

Of course I'll wait. I've always wondered how you communicate with the future, but all I'm 
hearing is Asahina-san's quiet breathing. This background music didn't last ten seconds, and was 
quickly replaced by a confused voice. 

"I don't believe it " 

"It's been authorized. Bu-Why ? It was so easy " 

That's because the future is now resting on my shoulders — but I didn't say that. How should I 
say this, I don't want to talk for much longer on the phone. 

"Let's meet in front of Nagato's apartment. Can you make it in 30 minutes?" 

"Uhh, wait. Give me an hour. I want to double-check. Oh, and, we should just meet in front of 
Nagato-san's apartment, there's no need to go in." 

I happily agreed and hung up the phone. After thinking of Asahina-san's cute and shocked face 
for a while, I set my face and reined in my feelings. In the time before departure, nothing that 
would make me laugh appeared. That guy should understand me best. 

And another person, who will know what I'm up to even if I don't tell her. But I should make 
sure. I picked up the phone again. 

An hour later 

I came too early. I was so happy, I rode my bike as fast as I could. I stood in front of the 
luxurious apartment, almost freezing to death. i5 minutes later, a cheerful person ran up to me. It 
looked like she didn't have time to change, and didn't think of changing either. She was still 
wearing the clothes she was wearing when we came back from our trip. Actually, I was too. 

"Kyon-kun." 

Asahina-san looked at me full of wonder. 



"I still don't get it. Why did your request go through so quickly? Furthermore, my boss even 

commanded me to take Nagato-san too, it has to be the three of us and when I asked him 

what the outcome would be, he only said that it was top-secret. And he even said I had to 

follow your orders. Why?" 

"I'll tell you in Nagato's room." 

As I said this, I entered Nagato's room number into the machine by the door and rang the 
doorbell. There was a response immediately. 


"It's me." 

"Enter." 

The door opened, I walked in. Ah, I can't forget Asahina-san, she's still baffled. After I waved to 
her, she seemed to wake up and hurried to catch up with me. Every single time we come here, 
she's scared. It's almost like it's her habit now. In the elevator, Asahina-san was turning over and 
thinking about many questions. She looked quite nervous, but also puzzled. 

That expression didn't change, even after Nagato opened the door and ushered us in. 

Nagato looked like she not only had time, but was very composed about everything too. She was 
in her apartment, but had already changed into that familiar sailor uniform. Reflecting, I feel that 
this appearance was especially comforting. I think this, not because I secretly have a sailor fetish, 
but because this person could fully understand the feeling of serenity in my heart. 

That time, when I saw a short-haired person wearing a sailor uniform holding a knife, as I was 
losing consciousness. 

If Nagato were to wear something else, I would probably feel very uncomfortable. I know I 
would still recognize her, but this sailor uniform has nearly become her trademark. 


Without speaking, Nagato pointed to the room, suggesting that we should sit down. Then she 
walked to the kitchen to make some tea. 

So, I used this time to outline the basic details for Asahina-san. 

"I don't believe it " 

Asahina-san's eyes were wide as plates as she muttered. 


What history was changed, how can it be, I didn't feel a thing 



That's not a surprise. No matter how I look at it, the only one with a clear memory of those three 
days is me. That me could not have done anything if it weren't for Nagato's hints and amazing 
ability to act. 

"A worldwide time-space change and direct interference with the future these things 

coincidentally happened at the same time." 

Asahina-san's voice trembled, her gaze drifting away. The table now had three cups of tea. It was 
tea Nagato had steeped for us, and she cut in on my explanations to Asahina-san once in a while. 

"Really." 

Asahina-san was very startled by these comments, and her tea was untouched, it's probably cold 
already. 


Nagato expressionlessly stared at Asahina-san, then shifted her unreadable gaze onto me, and 
then turned back to Asahina-san. 

I think I know what Nagato wants to say. I had told Asahina-san that it was because Nagato had 
set things in motion, so the world changed on December the eighteenth. It was lucky that the 
Emergency Escape Program had worked, and I had returned to the Tanabata four years ago. But 
this resulted in Asakura Ryoko attempting to assassinate me, fortunately a failed attempt. Before 
fainting, I saw myself, Nagato and Asahina-san, seemingly from the future, restore the world to 
its original state. Only saying this, she might not understand what the hell is going on, so Nagato 
wants to add some footnotes. 

Considering this wasn't all the information. The Tanabata four years ago also had an Asahina-san 
(Big) waiting for us. I still hadn't told her this, since I don't know if telling her would be good or 
bad. The Asahina-san now doesn't know anything. In other words, Asahina-san (Big) is hiding 
something from her. 

This Asahina-san seems to be communicating with the future on a regular basis, so if it were 
important, someone, even if it wasn't Asahina-san (Big), maybe her boss or someone even higher 
up, someone would probably tell her. Hey, I don't know how time travelers communicate. 

But I can mostly tell what happened. "When I asked him what the outcome is, he only said that it 
was a secret." were her words exactly. 

Asahina-san probably doesn't know anything, because no one is telling her. 

I don't know the reasons for this, but if I think about it, it seems about right. As a time traveler, 
she's kind of unprepared — that’s what I've thought before. Almost falling into an endless 

August, the mysterious mansion and if Asahina-san had given advice from the future before 

this kind of event, it would have been avoidable, but she didn't. Why? 



Nod. I see. 


If Asahina-san (Big) doesn't know anything, it would be too weird, because she, in the past — 
Asahina-san now — has already done these things. So, if these events and adventures were 
avoided, her future history would change. So it is required that, no matter what, we have to go 
through these things. 

This is all my theory, and the result is that we will all end up helpless to change anything, like 
Nagato. 

But since it's like this, isn't Asahina-san quite pitiable? Every time something happens, she'll 
always be scared to death. The number of times she's been shocked may even surpass the number 
of times I, a person from this time, have been startled. Moreover, Asahina-san's reasons for 
coming to the present are very suspicious. If it was only Haruhi that needed to be under 
surveillance, an anti-theft video camera could do the job. 

There has to be a real reason. Asahina-san herself does not know. But, the her a little while into 
the future does seem to know 

Lost in thought, I heard a cold, crisp voice. 

"I want you to do something for me." 

Since it's Nagato, I would do almost anything that she asks. 

"Please don't say anything to the me in the time we are visiting." 

Any talk at all? Do "Um" and "Ah" count too? 

"If it's possible." 

Nagato's normally expressionless eyes showed her thoughts, for once. Her black pupils showed 
that this was really a passionate wish. For me to reject this request, it would be akin to trying to 
catch the moon in the lake. 

"Got it. Since you said it like this, I'll find a way." 

The head that always has short hair nodded, slightly. 

Nagato, whose instructions were used to iron out the details of time and space, and Asahina-san, 
who was the faithful executor, made up this team of Aliens and Time Travelers. No matter how 
big Koizumi's Agency is, they have no chance of winning. Except I'm not sure if they even plan 
on fighting. 

Nagato, Asahina-san and I went to the entrance to put on our shoes. In that cramped space, we 
crowded and squeezed together. Last month, when I went with Asahina-san (Big), I had 



forgotten my shoes. That lesson reappeared clearly before me now. Her high heels were in the 
exact same place they were four years ago, obviously the work of Nagato. It's not like I can 
return them to this Asahina-san, so I guess I'll just ignore them. 

"Um, December the eighteenth... what time?" 

Nagato's answer was exact to the second; Asahina-san nodded her head. 

"We're going now. Kyon-kun, close your eyes. " 

And 

Time moved. That very familiar dizzy feeling that makes me want to puke. Even though my eyes 
are closed, it feels like something is flashing. It's comparable to staring at the sky and ascending, 
along with that unpleasant feeling of rising fast and losing track of what's up and what's down. 
Just like riding on an out-of-control roller coaster and being thrown around ten times, losing 
focus and feeling very weird, I was almost at my limit... 

My soles finally landed on the ground again. The gravity pulling me down feels so comfortable. 
"We're here." 

Nagato said softly. 

I opened my eyes gingerly, and was startled. 

I found myself standing in front of the school gates. 

I quickly tried to remember what happened before. On Tanabata four years ago, I came through 
time on the direction of the Nagato still in "Standby Mode". Coming back to the eighteenth with 
Asahina-san, I had gazed at the black world Nagato had created and walked under a street 
light 

and we had landed in the middle of all that. 

That "Me", changing himself as the world changed, was saying something to a Nagato with 
glasses on. I can even see the shadow of Asahina-san wearing my jacket. This isn't too good, 
because no matter how you look at it, this is just way too close. 

"Don't worry." 

Our Nagato said in monotone. 

"They can't see us. A soundproof barrier has been set up." 



That means, to "Me", Asahina-san and Nagato (with glasses), we're just soundless, transparent 
people. This doesn't need clarification from Nagato, because she's here with us. Pity. 

Asahina-san was blinking non-stop. 

"Um who's that girl? It's an adult, why is she here?" 

From here, they're only silhouettes. As expected, Asahina-san doesn't get it. If she could imagine 
that her future self would appear here, it would be too unnerving. As I was contemplating 
whether or not to tell her, something happened that made that thought disappear like dust in the 
wind. Even though I knew it was coming, it still gave me goose bumps watching it as a spectator. 

Suddenly, someone appeared from the shadows. It passed softly by us and by the time I realized 
that it was Asakura Ryoko, she was already running, no, charging at "us". Her knife was at her 
waist as she charged us in a hostile fashion. 

Asahina-san (Big) yelled something, but it was too late, "I" had been stabbed, just like I 
remember. 

"Ohh." 

That looked painful. I didn't notice it before, but when Asakura is waving that knife around, she's 
very detestable. Full of bloodlust, she stuck the knife into "my" body without hesitation. Luckily, 
Asakura Ryoko can only be convicted of attempted murder. 

"I" fell. 

"Eh Oh! Kyon-kun!" 

Asahina-san started yelling too, and she started to run to "Me". "Ah !" as she immediately ran 

into the invisible wall, and she stopped, looking on miserably. I think she's forgotten I'm right 
beside her in the heat of the moment. Her eyes only saw "Me", and I still don't know if I should 
be pleased or jealous. 

"Nagato-san!" 

Looking at Asahina-san, Nagato bobbed her head. 

"The barrier's dissolved It ends now." 

Asahina-san ran over, Nagato also started working. Faster than the night wind, she grabbed 
Asakura's knife right away. Asakura's yell rang out, a mixture of hate and fright. I also ran 
towards the old me. Oh, great, now "I" look horrible. 


Asahina-san was crying while she held "Me" in her arms. Since she's worried about me, I'm 
really happy. But hanging there, I wouldn't mind if I died. 



She tearfully cried for "Me" as if her life depended on it, completely ignoring everyone else. I 
really want to thank her. 

Painfully, Asahina-san (Big) moved her gaze from the ground up and stared at me. 

"You're here." 

But I'm a bit late, not as in time late, but mood-wise. 

" Hey " 

This sound was Nagato from my memory. The someone running around that was hurting my 
heart. The Nagato with glasses had fallen down, and was sitting there with a look of alarm on her 
face. Those dark eyes’ gaze moved from the fallen "Me" to Asakura, then to the person wearing 
the same sailor uniform as her, then onto me. 

"Wh y " 

I have an agreement with my Nagato. So, I cannot talk to this other Nagato, the one that just 
finished changing the world. There is only one thing I have to say or do. 

Picking up the gun that Nagato had made three years ago, I looked at "Me". To say what I heard 
before, I opened my mouth and said what I remembered. This should work, because as long as it 
mostly fits, a little bit of difference is allowed. That "Me" completely closed his almost-closed 
eyes, falling to one side. This fainting scene was very exciting, it looked like "I" died. But if no 
one stops the blood, "I" would really die. 

Then, from now on, it's all up to us. Even I don't know what will happen after. 

The first thing I see is my Nagato stopping Asakura. 


The knife Nagato was holding onto glowed as it turned to dust. Asakura wanted to run away but 
couldn't move, as if her feet were glued to the ground. Nagato was speaking very fast. 

"Wh, Why? You " 

Asakura' s body was also shining now. 

"Isn't this what you wanted Today too Why " 

The unmoving Asakura asked one last question, and then disintegrated like a knife just cut her 
into pieces. At the same time, 


Ah? 



Asahina-san (Small) toppled over, looking like she was bending over my body. The softly closed 
eyes and the slightly open mouth said she was asleep. 


Asahina-san's (Big) hand gently caresses the dead-tired senpai's neck. 

"I put her to sleep." 

The adult Asahina-san stroked her young seifs hair sadly. 

"I can't let her know I'm here. I had to do this." 

Asahina-san sleeps very cutely, using "my" hand as a pillow. 

"Don't tell her about me." 

This sleeping face is the same as the one from Tanabata three years ago, as the one on the bench 
in the park, the reason is exactly the same too, Asahina-san (Big) doesn't want the her from the 
past see what she looks like. The back is fine, but if she walks closer, Asahina-san is not allowed 
to see Asahina-san (Big). 

I gazed at the unconscious Asahina-san and at "Me". 


My Nagato knelt and leaned over, putting her hand to the abdomen of the "Me" that got stabbed. 
It's a good thing she did. Anyway, the blood stopped, and "my" pale face finally looked like a 
normal human's. So, the person who healed me was her. 

Nagato casually stood up and, without wiping the blood off her finger, reached her hand out and 
said, 

"Lend it to me." 

I didn't say anything, and just gave her the gun. I haven't held it in a long time, and was glad to 
give it up. If anything happens, this can be used as a threat I suppose. But no matter what, I won't 
shoot any Nagato with it. 

The gun-wielding Nagato points the gun at the Nagato with glasses sitting on the ground, who 
had been timid all along. She nonchalantly cocks and fires it. 

Nagato (with glasses) started shining as she slowly stood up. That stick-like posture was the 
posture of the Nagato I was familiar with. Completely different from when she gave me an 
application form, or when she awkwardly pulled on my sleeve while crying, different from that 
shy, slightly smiling person. 



Like she was proving it to me, that Nagato took off her glasses and, after staring at me, locked 
her cold gaze onto the other her and said, 

"Request synchronization." 

The two Nagatos stared at each other. Counting this time, I have already seen "Me" several times 
before. Both Asahina-sans have also been around each other many times. But, this is the first 
time there has been more than one Nagato at a time. It makes me feel odd. Quite a magnificent 
sight. 

"Request synchronization." 

The Nagato that was shot repeated, the Nagato that shot immediately replied. 

"Denied." 

Even I found this odd, let alone the Nagato holding glasses in her hand. Her eyebrows may have 
moved. 

"Why?" 

"Because I don't want to." 

I'm astonished. Completely flabbergasted. Has anything this clear ever come out of Nagato's 
mouth before? This isn't an excuse. This explicit denial proves she has emotions, no doubt about 
it. 


The other Nagato, seemingly lost in thought, quieted. 


She's as silent as before, as the night wind blows her hair around. 

I gently said to the Nagato from the past, 

"Go change the world back to its former state." 

"Understood." 

That Nagato nodded, and said, in a slightly hesitating voice that only I could understand, 
"Unable to sense the existence of the Integrated Data Sentient Entity." 


"It's not here. 



My Nagato faintly said, 

"I am still connected to the time and space I am from, let me do the second adjustment. " 
"Understood." Said the Nagato from the past. 

"After the transformation," 

My Nagato said, 

"You can move according to your own wishes." 

The Nagato that was just reverted looks at me, her head tilted. Unperceivable data appears in that 
expression and gaze, but I can read it, no one is more clear than I as to what Nagato wants to say. 

This Nagato is that Nagato. The Nagato that appeared at the hospital that night. The one that said 
her own punishment was being debated and annoying the shit out of me. 

I also understand why the Nagato from the future has rejected synchronization. Nagato doesn't 
want that her to tell this her what she has to do. 

Why? — Why ask why, that's something that's not obvious to see. 

Thank you. — That time I heard Nagato say this as the answer. 

"Kyon-kun?" 

Asahina-san spoke cautiously to the still standing me. 

"This child Can you take care of her?" 

She started to pick up the heavy-looking, peacefully-sleeping Asahina-san (Small). I 
immediately went to help, and, following her directions, piggy-backed the slender Asahina-san 
like before. She's even as soft and warm as in my memory. 

"A large-scale time-quake will be happening shortly," 

Asahina-san (Big) said, hugging her arms, her very serious face showing sharp anxiety. 

"Compared with the one Nagato-san did just now, this one is even more complicated and 
significant. Opening your eyes, even if you wanted to, would be extremely hard." 

Since it's you that's saying this, of course I believe you, but what difference does this make? 

"The first change was only meant to start the process. In this one, we need to make time turn 
back to its original flow. Think for a second about where you woke up." 



The evening of December the eighteenth, I went into the hospital where I later woke up. 


"Yes. So, we must make this turn into that." 

Barefoot, with my jacket over her shoulder, Asahina-san (Big) slowly and quietly walked over. 

One of Asahina-san's (Big) hands went to Asahina-san's (Small) shoulder as she turned her head 
around and looked at Nagato. The Nagato that came here with me walked over to join us. There 
was still someone remaining like they originally were; the fallen "Me" was still lying there. 

Asahina-san (Big) reached out and grabbed Nagato with her free hand. 

"It's up to you, Nagato-san." 

Nagato lightly nodded her head, then stared at herself, as if they were never going to meet again. 
The other Nagato didn't say a word. It might have been my imagination, but she looked very 
lonely. No worries. I still remember what I said then. That "Me" right there will talk to you soon 
enough. That punk will say this, for certain, so come visit with a clear conscience. Don't forget to 
call your boss a 'bastard' for me. 

"Close your eyes, Kyon-kun," 

Asahina-san (Big) said softly, 

"Don't get time-sick." 

I followed her advice, closing my eyes tightly. 

The next moment, I feel the world tremble. 

"Uwah " 

Falling heads over heels and revolving in a no-gravity zone is something I have experienced 
many times before. Even though I think I'm used to these sensations, this time is vastly different 
from all the other times. If all the other times were like riding a roller-coaster in an amusement 
park, this is a noisy, anarchic space shuttle I'm randomly flying about in without a seat belt. But, 
since my body has no mass, it is actually not being twirled around. This is just dizziness. Despite 
the fact that I want to see what the outside looks like, as soon as I open my eyes, it's really like 
being dead drunk, very scary. The only movie I get to see is the random bits of light that came 
through my eyelids, lighting up the dark. The warmth of Asahina-san (Small) on my back and 
the feeling of Asahina-san's (Big) hand on my shoulder are both very comforting. 

1 feel a waning light stabbing at my closed eyes. 

Because I can't resist the desire to look, I open my eyes, and see where the red light is, in reality, 
coming from. Revolving red lights are something only emergency vehicles have. 



What ? 


An ambulance stood directly in front of North High's gates. Students who like action looked on 
from a distance while emergency personnel lifted someone onto a stretcher. There were two 
people following this stretcher at its high speed, two girls in fact, and I will never forget their 
names my entire life. Haruhi's pale face looked frightened, Asahina-san was crying and very sad, 
running after the stretcher. Shortly after, an unsmiling Koizumi chased after them. 

The stretcher was immediately put into the ambulance, and Haruhi, after exchanging a few words 
with the personnel, got in too. The red lights started flashing again, and the ambulance began to 
move. Koizumi, standing beside Asahina-san who was covering her eyes, looked very serious as 
he talked on his cell phone. Nagato wasn't there, but that was obvious. 

My dizziness still hadn't gone away. To tell the truth, I wasn't even sure where my body was at 
the moment. 

Some part of my body felt Asahina-san (Big) let out a huge sigh. 

"Kyon-kun, now we'll return to the original time." 

The movie I was watching gradually disappeared. Has the service been cut? I'll give you 
something to see. Like during my three-day long memory loss, it's a brigade leader's 
responsibility to worry about the members, that's the way it is, Haruhi. 

The dizziness started again, I really want to take some pills. Next time, I must prepare some 
beforehand. 

"Aim at the time you came from. Follow that me. It will take her a while to wake up Fufu, 

Maybe I'll let you kiss me." 

And with that joke, I felt Asahina-san (Big) gradually fade away. 

And 

When I open my eyes, I'm standing in Nagato's living room with Asahina-san on my back. 
Nagato is standing facing me. 

"Sixty-two seconds have passed since we departed." 

Lifting her head to look at me, she said, 

"We're back." 


Back to our own time and world. 



I sighed and put Asahina-san down off my shoulders. She's really the best nominee for a 'Make- 
people-want-to-kiss-your-sleeping-face' contest. The “Me” that believes everything Asahina-san 
said is very impure. If this wasn't Nagato's room, or she wasn't staring at me like she's 
investigating me, it's possible I might throw away feelings of shame. No, I wouldn't do that. I 
wouldn't. 

Picking up the teacup on the table, I downed it in one gulp. Even though when we left the tea 
was already cool, this tasted great. It's kind of like drinking tea after taking a bath. It can also be 
compared to Asahina-san's tea. 

‘’Sigh” "Oh man..." 

Finally, I've finished everything from last year that needed sorting out. There shouldn't be 
anything we haven't finished. With the chapter on the world changing closed at last, the winter 
trip that crossed into this year is definitely finished, the only thing left is going to the temples and 
shrines for the first time this year. Meh, Haruhi will come up with something new in a little bit. 
Before that happens, these days should be quite quiet. 

By the way, the angel-like time traveler is still not awake. I don't know what kind of magic was 
used on her, but she looks just like Shamisen in a warm room after being fed. Being put into this 
sleep that looks very happy, it's actually somewhat pitiable. I asked Nagato to put bedding on the 
ground, and placed Asahina-san down to sleep on it, putting a wool blanket and a quilt on top. 

"Nagato, before Asahina-san wakes up, please take care of her." 

Nagato regarded the sleeping visitor, then shot a look at me and nodded her head. 

Although I woke up ready for action, I am now actually really tired. The accumulated tiredness 
from the vacation and the time travel, if not taken care of with a bath and bed, will prevent me 
from getting up tomorrow at nine. My very limited reserves are slowly disappearing, like an 
ordinary miracle. I want that to stop. You could say what five people do in a month is small in 
comparison with what I've gone through. 

Not unlike the Tanabata when I started being Mr. Sleep-for-Three-Years, I could let her put a 
blanket on me with Asahina-san. But even though I have confidence that I will fall asleep once I 
lie down, I can't help but think that nobody would wish for that to happen. 

A time traveler occasionally sleeping at an alien's house, that's not too bad. 

"See you tomorrow." 

"Understood." 

Using her very calming gaze, Nagato expressionlessly stared at me. Her two serene pupils under 
her bangs stared fixedly at me. 



Thanks for your work today. Sorry I made you go through all that. 


Same with Asahina-san. The person who did the most work would be this Nagato and the Nagato 
that was there at the Tanabata four years ago. 

"No problem." 

Her expression unchanged, 

"This all started because of me." 

I stared at the alien until the door closed tightly. Earlier, I had wondered whether a smile would 
show up on her face, regrettably not — or very comforting, since the delicate, fair face is 
impassive as usual. But I thought there was something different from the past, thank my skilled 
eyes for noticing that. 

Coming out of the apartment, I slowly rode my bike home, and fell asleep as soon as I lay on my 
bed after getting there. 

I feel that if you fall asleep when you're really tired, you will have a whole lot of weird, happy 
dreams. Thirty seconds after I woke up, I forgot everything about the dream, but the lingering 
mood told me everything I needed to know. 

A time traveler and an alien peacefully steeping tea together will leave this kind of a mood. 

So, just like putting Asahina-san down off my shoulders, I threw off all worries and lived calmly 
for a month. 

But there was still a problem. 

After seeing that extremely cute face, this problem had slipped my mind; but even though she 
fell asleep, Asahina-san wouldn't forget what Nagato and I, along with Asahina-san (Big) went 
through on December the eighteenth. From her point of view, she had just heard from me that 
time and space had been changed and had not known whether to believe it or not. After going 
back in time to see the horrid scene in which "I" got stabbed, she got put to sleep. After she woke 
up, did she want to go back? — That's the problem. 

From my point of view, she'd already completed her mission very well, since what she did only 
she could do. Except Asahina-san didn't see it like that. Now that I think about it, not long after 
the end of the vacation, Asahina-san became very absent-minded and lost in thought. 

This and that Sunday Asahina-san who called me out melancholically are connected in some 
way. She even saved a kid wearing glasses from an auto accident that day. Actually, Asahina- 
san's (Big) secrecy has an interesting implication. Whoever makes Asahina-san cry deserves to 
be beat to a pulp; this is indisputable. After reflecting for a while, I wondered how many times 



I've made Asahina-san cry? Next time I go to a boxing practice ring with Haruhi, I'll practice 
some boxing. I can even enjoy the sensation of hitting people and being hit. 


To cut a long story short, it's a good thing that Sunday when two people went to buy tea 
happened. It got me thinking about the future of the SOS Brigade, and it successfully lifted 
Asahina-san's depression. To tell you the truth, I don't know what she perceived, but we seem to 
have a mutual understanding. There's no point explaining it in detail, especially not to Asahina- 
san now. 

I never mention John Smith in front of Haruhi. This is somewhat like me not telling Asahina-san 
about the adult Asahina-san; it has a similar meaning. This is the emergency trump card. 

If the time comes 

Well, I don't want that time to come. 


And as February began, the topic started to show up again. 

As soon as the new year arrived, the atmosphere around the school changed. For example, you 
will almost never see a third- year anymore. Around this time, they are all getting prepared for 
tests and whatnot, maybe this is the reason, but even the mood in homeroom was much more 
tense. As I think back to last year, it obviously does affect me. If the third-years don't work 
attentively, and the marks do not surpass the competitive schools in the district, the principal will 
fretfully request everyone to enroll in extra courses or sacrifice the school cultural festival for 
mock tests and the like. And since I have to do this after two years, it's very depressing. 

Talking about tests, the tests that determine your class number are about to begin. Our school has 
two of them. Actually, class nine, which Koizumi's in, is Math/Physics. I'm not sure whether he 
just has connections or is naturally smart, I'm still amazed he managed to transfer in. I sure don't 
take Math and Physics seriously enough to make them my principle courses. 

Temporarily moving my thoughts from the future to the present hell, University admission tests. 
Why can't the quickly counting down senior days go by slower? I am purposely not looking at 
the calendar. Since I got back from December the eighteenth, I have been carefree and relaxed. 

All in all, I can't think of a more dangerous job than fixing time and space. Since I completed it 
smoothly, just let me rest for a little while. Nagato is now exactly the same as before. Asahina- 
san's smiling face has finally come back. Haruhi is a bit unusual, but she'll be back to her noisy 
self in no time at all. 



At this point, there shouldn't be any problems at all. I might as well say I don't want to think 
about it. But, in the club room, a selfish person just has to bring up trivial matters and deem it 
important all by himself. He is the only brigade member to be cast aside with Haruhi, the useless 
during a time-space change esper, Koizumi. 

"There are two December the eighteenths you frequently visit, interesting." 

After the incident at the mysterious mansion, Koizumi has enjoyed listening to the experiences 
I've had with time travel. Just like a smart little grandson wanting a story out of his grandparents, 
Koizumi has already asked and inquired many times before. He seems to really want to travel in 
time. I always feel like he envies me. I mean, on the way back from Tsuruya-san's, he was 
heartily asking "Can I go too?" and "I don't even care if I can’t see the past me." and stuff like 
that. Needless to say, I completely ignore him. 

I am embarrassed because of the Nagato thing, so even though everything is over, I still talk 
obscurely about it. Finally, I cannot deter Koizumi any longer and, not wishing to offend him too 
much, told him about the incident. 

So, just as I had expected, he started to explain cheerfully. 

"You see, this all started when Nagato-san changed the world on the dawn of December the 
eighteenth. In that world, I, Suzumiya-san and Asahina-san were all normal people. You spent 

three days there, then you went three years back in Nagato-san's Emergency Escape Program 

No, wait, four years now There you met the normal Nagato-san and went back once again to 

dawn on December the eighteenth." 

Yes I know that. I’ve been there again recently, you know. 

"Okay, think about this. Dawn of December the eighteenth. Let’s label the time that Nagato-san 
changed the world as 'X'. When you went from Tanabata four years ago to 'X', that 'X' already 
wasn't the original 'X'." 

What? That's impossible. There can't be more than one 'time' at a time. 

"No, that's just the way our minds work. It's simple, really. If the world had not changed at 'X', 
Suzumiya-san wouldn't have disappeared and I wouldn't have become a normal person. If that 
were the case, you would have no reason to go back." 

An ontological paradox. Yes, I know of those. 

"But this world requires you to go back in time to fix it. If you didn't go, the world would have 
continued on its wrong path. So you went back to the past, and righted the world. Otherwise this 
time would not exist." 


Let's draw a diagram. That might help. 



Ever since the snow mountain incident, Koizumi likes diagrams a lot. Picking up a whiteboard 
marker, he starts to trace a line down the whiteboard. 


“Let’s say this line is the world going on its original course from the past to the future.” 

The line stops in the middle of the board. He draws a circle on it and labels it 'X'. 

"This is the original time. Here, Nagato-san changed the world she was in and your memories of 
that world begin. 

Koizumi begins drawing again. This time it isn't a straight line. It’s a very rounded line curving 
to the right, making a circle leading back to the 'X' point. The diagram now looks like a budding 
leaf with half ripped off. 

"This circle is the memory you have after the eighteenth. The Emergency Escape Program let 
you return to Tanabata four years ago, and from there you went to the eighteenth. If Nagato-san 
had been reverted right here, everything would have been fine, but it didn't work out like that I 
guess." 

Because Asakura Ryoko was there. But, at that time, it wasn't just Asakura who intervened. 

There was also a "Me" from the future, along with Nagato and Asahina-san (Small). We did 
everything in our power to revert the world to its former state. Now that I think about it, it took 
about a month. 

"That's it. Which means you saved yourself. That is — " 

Koizumi's pen started out from the 'X' point again, this time looping to the left, 

" — this part. The history of this world now. In the memory of Suzumiya-san and myself, you fell 
down the stairs on the eighteenth and lost consciousness, not waking up until the twenty-first. 
This was also two months ago, when you set out to save yourself." 

Even after drawing the left loop, Koizumi didn't stop the pen. He continued the line that ran 
through the 'X', only stopping when the line reached the bottom of the board. He put down the 
pen, took a half- step back, glanced at me and looked at the diagram intently. 

It was just a sideways eight, looking remarkably like an infinity sign ( oo ), with a line down the 
middle. It’s very easy to understand like this. The point all the lines connect is the 'X' time. 

I, who had always earnestly told myself I hated Math and Physics, was slowly beginning to 
understand what Koizumi wanted to say. 

The right loop was the time from my memory. After a series of chaotic events, I managed to 
make it back to 'X' and was there when Nagato changed the world. I even got stabbed by 
Asakura. 



The left loop was the time I missed. It was the time from when I lost consciousness after being 
stabbed up to when I woke up in the hospital. Those three days were this loop. 


And both circles start from 'X' 

"Meaning there are two X' times." 

Koizumi answered me simply. 

"If the world before the change is X', then after the change — We can call it X*’". 

Koizumi, who had put down the pen, looked at his graph and was very interested. 

"Without an X', there would be no X*'. So, the original X' did not disappear. We could say the 

two times are superposed. When becoming superimposed, it got covered up. The old data 

was overwritten with new data. The first X' ran for a while, but it and the changed world that 
stemmed from it were covered up by the X*', the second timeline. But it isn't gone altogether, 
it’s still there." 

"I don't get it." 

I pretended I didn't understand, while suddenly remembering Asahina-san's (Big) words. 

Something about a larger and more complicated time quake occurring. 

"It's like looking at two separate overlapping circuits. The intersection looks like it's a 2-D 
connection. If we add another dimension, that's different. Even though in the world of horizontal 
and vertical lines they look like one place, they are at a different depth." 

I rub my temples, pondering what a time traveler would make of this. Or an alien, for the matter. 
“There’s also another possibility I would like to share with you.” 

I'm pretty sure I'll have to listen to anything he says now anyway. 

"The memory we have but you don't have when you fell down the stairs on the eighteenth, to 

your awakening on the twenty-first, three days later, maybe it never existed." 

It doesn't really matter if it did or not. Besides, I was just lying there the whole time. 

"Yes, it's just as you say. Do you remember what I said before? We cannot eliminate the 
possibility the world was created five minutes ago. Maybe you being lifted into an ambulance 
and out cold for three days never happened. You could also think, from when the world was 
changed on the eighteenth to when you woke up on the twenty-first, those moments don't exist in 
time. If this were true, then Suzumiya-san's and my own memories are made up and we've been 
made to believe them after everything was reconstructed on the evening of the twenty- first " 



I did say I would listen, but no matter how I looked at it, it was ridiculo — I can't say that. It's 
not completely impossible. The past had been re-written for a year back, and this was only three 
days. 

"Change of topic. Suzumiya-san saw the reality of the shadow girl, she's alert to it now." 

Who? The person who pushed me down the stairs? 

"It was Nagato-san." 

That's hilarious. At the time, wasn't Nagato going down the stairs with you guys? Apparently, I 
was at the back. 

"Yes. That's what we all remember. Nagato-san didn't push you directly. But she was the one 
that made up the story of you being knocked unconscious. And Suzumiya-san intuitively sensed 
that it was no accident. Of course she doesn't really know it was Nagato-san. In reality, the 
perpetrator wasn't at the scene of the crime. But Suzumiya-san doesn't know that. What she does 
know is that for it to become like this, someone had to do something. So the culprit must be 
hiding nearby." 

Koizumi smiled that bright smile. 

"That intuition sort of created the shadow girl. Of course, such a perpetrator does not exist. There 
is no mysterious shadow.” 

You can’t be telling me Haruhi suspects Nagato purely based on intuition. After Nagato's new 
world was fixed, she changed everyone's memories at will. But I can believe that somehow, 
Haruhi has come to realize something was wrong, that there was somebody, somewhere, doing 
something. 

"It's a theory, what I came up with to answer your question.” 

The enlivening rogue sat on the chair and suddenly extended his arms wide. 

"In fact, I don't understand how the timelines are created and paradoxes resolved. But then what 
is Asahina-san doing, coming here from the future? So now I have a question for you. If you 
could go into the past and steer history away from something awful, would you?" 

I suddenly think of Asahina-san (Big) on the night of Tanabata. When Haruhi and Koizumi, who 
had went to a different school, Asahina-san of the Calligraphy Club and Nagato with glasses 
were assembled, I pressed the 'Enter' key on the keyboard, and the second time-quake happened 
right away. The "I" from the past sitting on the long bench in the park. The "I" that helped the 
middle-school Haruhi draw the pictures. 



If I had ran up at the time, I wonder what would have happened. If I had told him everything that 
was going to happen, don't let Haruhi make that movie, don't give Nagato any trouble, etc, and 
gave him some advice. 

I can only shrug my shoulders, because there's nothing else possible. 

"Yeah, I don't know." 

If I really had the chance to do so, I say do it before you think about it. I know the head will be 
hard to use, so just let the body do it. I always did that before, I'm anticipating doing it this time 
too. 

“But, no matter what people say, you can't just go on time traveling trips, especially if it doesn't 
impact us.” 

That's too bad, I was going to take you with me this time. 

Even if your eyes look like Shamisen’s when he’s hungry in the middle of the night, I don't care. 
Go beg Asahina-san; the adult one, that is. I have no clue where you have to go to find her. The 
only thing I can tell you is, remember to bring some medicine for the dizziness. 

Koizumi, depressed, shook his head and started to play Shogi by himself. I continued reading my 
manga magazine like before, the club room was peaceful once again. I was just thinking, that's 
good, when 

"Sorry to make you wait!" 

With that, the door is kicked open. The main character in the chaos enters, her sailor uniform 
skirt and hair blowing charmingly and freely in the wind. The master of this room, Haruhi, is 
holding a convenience store bag, her face smiling complacently. 

"The stores in the neighborhood don't have these snacks, so I had to go down the hill to get these. 
Ahh! I'm freezing." 

There was an electric stove in the corner of the room, so she quickly stretched out her hands to 
warm them up. After the Brigade Leader came Nagato and Asahina-san. Both were carrying the 
same type of things as Haruhi. 


Nagato silently closed the door. 
"Um, what should we do next?" 


Asahina-san, confused, cocked her head. Haruhi zealously replied, 



"Do I even need to tell you? Mikuru-chan, do you know what day today is? You couldn’t have 
bought all this without knowing, right?" 


"February the third. But, what does ?" 

"It's the Spring Setsubun! Spring Setsubun!" 

Haruhi pulled out a vacuum-packed food package out of the convenience store bag. 

"That annoys me, Mikuru-chan. You didn't do this when you were little? It's Setsubun today, and 
if it's Setsubun, you just naturally want to throw roasted soy beans and eat futomaki!" 

Futomaki really is a local tradition. In a nutshell, she's a brigade leader that rigidly follows the 
little traditional festivals of the four seasons. Now, the SOS Brigade isn't the 'Save our world by 
Overloading it with fun: Suzumiya Haruhi Brigade' anymore, it's the 'Save the world by 
celebrating all Obscure festivals: Suzumiya Haruhi's Brigade'. This is so not a lie. 

"What's this, a Bernoulli lemniscate?" 

Right away, Haruhi noticed Koizumi's drawing on the white board. She looked at the path I had 
traveled through time, her gaze like somebody stalking their own kid. 

"It can't be. What formula would draw this line?" 

"I just drew it for fun." 

Calmly, Koizumi stood up and erased the path off the white board. 

"I drew it to kill time, you don't need to think too deeply about it." 

Awesome excuse. 

"Oh, I see." 

Haruhi easily believed it, because that thing didn't matter. She threw the bag to me. After flying 
through the air, the bag landed in my hands. It was a bag filled to the brim with roasted soy 
beans. 

It's Setsubun! Because it is Setsubun, we just have to scatter beans — is what Haruhi was 
thinking all through lunch break. At the time, Haruhi had loudly shouted, 

"I kept thinking I was forgetting something. Yeah, It was Setsubun!" 

Maybe she realized it after seeing Taniguchi's lunch, sushi. As soon as Taniguchi opened his 
lunch box, he started to vent, "Oi, oi, what the hell is this? How come this is it?" angrily. 



"They made it for you with good intentions, don't be picky." I replied. But deep inside me, I 
agreed with this kid, and I do not approve of whoever made such a lunch. At least wrap it up 
after cutting it, don't let Haruhi see. 

"Only worshipping foreign cultures isn't good, you know. You have to respect your own tradition 
and enjoy the activities. It's kind of a pity if you ignore them. Without it, half the fun will be 
gone. People who forget their roots are going down the wrong road!" 

Quiet. Wait. Is it possible she thinks she's traveling down the right road? In my opinion, you 
would even go backwards on a road a wild pig usually goes down. 

"What are you talking about? I always set the king's road as my goal. So, I do everything I can. 
Kyon, you even forgot today was Setsubun, right? That's hard to forgive." 

I'm pretty sure you forgot too. No, as I was about to say this, HR ended, and Haruhi started 
preparing immediately. The only thing she actually needs is soy beans and futomaki. She could 
get it herself. Luckily, I was called by our homeroom teacher Okabe-sensei to run an errand. 
Koizumi was also the cleaning person of the day. So, Haruhi could only get Nagato and Asahina- 
san to go with her. After school, the three of them left. They finally got back now. That's 
basically what happened. 

We can just eat the futomaki facing the lucky direction of the year, but the soy beans have a 
specific function. 

"So, where are we going to scatter the beans?" 

I opened a bag and asked this while shoving beans toward my mouth. This would go well with 
some tea as a snack. 

"If we do it in the clubroom, it would be really hard to clean up, it's best if we don't." 

"Anywhere's fine." 

Haruhi turns her bright eyes and says, 

"Oh, yeah! Dropping them off the highest balcony on the school into the courtyard is a good 
idea, right? The beans that drop onto the ground will become bird food, there's no need to clean 
up." 

Continuing, Haruhi declared, 

"We already have people suitable to be 'lucky daughters', so let's do this on a grand scale." 

The leader of the SOS Brigade was staring at Asahina-san, who was intently reading the 
package, and Nagato, who was already sitting down in front of the table, reading her detective 
novel. 



If there were a school contest to see who would be the best 'lucky daughters', the ones to win the 
grand prize and special mention would probably be these two. Putting that aside, this type of 
'scatter the beans and banish the demons' event is right up their alley. Asahina-san could act it 
out; Nagato would do the actual banishing. 

We trailed behind Asahina-san and the person dragging her, Haruhi, finally reaching the highest 
balcony. There, we followed instructions, and start to scatter beans. The scatterers are the three 
girls in the Brigade, this was an order too. Koizumi and I are just responsible for replenishing 
their supply of beans as they scatter them around. Following Haruhi's instructions, oddly enough, 
we actually do this thing well. 

When we first started, the students down there didn't know what was going on, and ran around 
like a group of insects not wanting to die. But before a minute had passed, the guys had come 
back in twos and threes and started to fight for the beans Asahina-san and Nagato were throwing 
down just like it was for money. They generally avoided the beans that Haruhi and her strong 
arms were firing off, considering it was kind of like the beans were fired out of a gun. For this, 
they moved in unison, going left and right at the same time. 

"Stand and fight!" 

Haruhi said, lamenting. 

"Hey, if we had dressed Mikuru-chan up in a shrine maiden costume, we could have used this to 
make some money. Even if we only asked for 100 yen each, we'd still make quite a large sum, 
right?" 

If we had dressed her up in that costume, she would suddenly be very popular, but there's 
nothing to worry about. Cosplay is limited to the clubroom only. 

"Whew, Fuku wa uchi — Umm, Yeah. Fuku wa uchi — " 

I gazed at the frantically throwing Asahina-san and the completely silent Nagato tossing beans 
off the balcony. Of course, a picture of them in shrine maiden costumes went through my head, 
and I replied to Haruhi, 

"500 yen each, I say." 

Anyway, they were yelling 'Fuku wa uchi' (Luck in!), only part of the traditional expression. 

This is because earlier... 

"Well, since I read 'Naita Akaoni', I vowed that if I ever met a demon, I would be nice to it. The 
Red Demon sure cried a lot. If I had seen that note, I would've happily gone to the Red Demons' 
home to drink tea and eat dessert " 


Haruhi, who was totally on the side of the demons, had stated this with a serious glint in her eye. 



"Hmm? Listen up. If you ever meet the Blue Demon, you have to be nice to him. Our doors are 
always open to anybody, even people who are not really people." 

If we aren't careful, the luck will continue to come in, and that's good. But if we don't let 
anything out I have the feeling it will inflate and pop, just like a bag. I agree with Haruhi on the 
Blue Demon part, though. 

Perhaps it was because it reminded me I had once cried over this in my childhood. Or because 
Nagato was right there throwing beans with a crude demon mask on the side of her head. I had 
wondered why the half-reading, half-listening-to-Haruhi Nagato had taken an interest in a mask 
made of paper. She had silently picked it up, stared at it like a scanner would and put it on her 
head. 

Maybe Haruhi's phrase 'people who are not really people' touched her heart. — That was just a 
figment of my imagination. 

After Asahina-san and Nagato's service throwing beans ended, we went back to the clubroom, 
and set to finishing off the futomaki. After searching for the lucky direction of the year on the 
internet, Haruhi split the food up. 

"Don't talk before you finish. Here, everyone stand. Face that way and eat." 



£3 

Five people stood facing one direction, forming a line, and soundlessly started to devour the futomaki 

Five people stood facing one direction, forming a line, and soundlessly started to devour the 
futomaki. This took a while; Haruhi and Nagato finished in about two or three bites, but 
Asahina-san, holding the sushi with two hands like a little woodland animal, savored it. I pray 
we won't be having this tonight for dinner too. 

The remaining beans got put on a plate, and ended up in my and Haruhi's stomachs along with 
some tea Asahina-san steeped. Setsubun is actually a holiday for eating, I have a new 
understanding now. 

Now, after all that, Haruhi should be pleased. But oddly, she was reserved again the following 
day. Like I said before, it's not a serious melancholy, Setsubun proved that she was fine. But 
because of that, I didn't know what to make of this, it doesn't feel safe. It also seems that only I 



have noticed this melancholy. I don't even need to talk about the clueless Taniguchi and 
Kunikida, and even the self-proclaimed Haruhi expert Koizumi hasn't noticed. 

It is indeed weird. 

I've racked my brain, but I can't continue to think about it. 

A more straight-forwardly strange thing has occurred, and it didn't stop at being an odd mood 
like Haruhi's, it actually took a shape that you could see with your eyes. 

Like I said before, I told Koizumi I wasn't going to take him time traveling, and I meant it. I don't 
really want to go to the past right now. I have done it lots of times, and there is no real reason to 

go- 

Can I stick to this pathetic wish? Well, I hope so. 

This time, the person who traveled back in time will not be me. I am not leaving this time at all, 
not one step. But even though I hoped otherwise, I was still sucked into this time's time 
disturbance. 

That person appeared in the utility closet in the Literature Club's room. 


Chapter 1 

It all happened a few days after Risshun. 

After school, I opened the door to the club room and embraced the coldness and emptiness that 
had awaited me. Not only was Asahina-san’s warm greeting absent, even Nagato’s chair was 
empty. Haruhi hadn’t returned yet, as it was her turn today to receive advice on her further 
studies. She would probably be in the staff room right now, making some unreasonable “career” 
plans with the homeroom teacher Okabe-sensei. If someone asked her what she would like to be 
after she grows up, she would probably put on a stern face and reply “Dictator”, “Supreme Ruler 
of the Universe” or something of the sort. 

If by any chance you do turn out to become one of the above, I would be very depressed. 

Anyway, I’m sure Okabe-sensei would try his best to talk her out of it, advising her to do some 
serious planning about her future, while carefully mincing his words. If one tried to advise her 
blindly, she would probably react the same way that chromium does with oxygen. It takes careful 
manipulation of words to persuade her out of something - that's her specialty. 


I placed my bag on the desk and proceeded to turn the heater on. This should be able to provide 
some warmth to the freezing club room, which felt even colder due to the lack of the normally 
present brigade members. However, it would still be some time before the heat gradually builds 
up. Remember, we’re talking about an old heater here. 

Besides the heater, the only other artifact that's able to generate heat would be Asahina-san’s tea 
kettle. I really want to drink her tea! The mere thought of this made me anxious, as I impatiently 
pulled my chair closer. This is when — 

Clang. 

“What the?” 

The sound seemed to come from the corner of the room. I instinctively shot my glance at that 
direction, and looked at a tall rectangular object made out of metal, used to store cleaning 
utensils. 

Although every class had one, how Haruhi had managed to nick one for the club room was a 
complete mystery. 

The sound came from this broom closet. 

It must have been a broom or a mop falling over, I thought to myself. Just then — 

Thunk. 

This time, it was softer. 

“This is starting to get creepy,” I said to myself. 

Have you ever experienced something like this? Let’s say everyone happens to go out, leaving 
you alone in the house. Theoretically, you should be all alone by yourself, but there's still this 
eerie feeling that you aren’t alone, as if someone is hiding outside the windows. Although you 
have the urge to find out for yourself, the thought of someone really being there is just too scary, 
so you would probably try to ignore the entire situation. This is mainly caused by psychological 
factors. 

This is probably one of those scenarios, I thought to myself. Now if this had happened in my 
own house instead of the club room, I would have probably been too freaked out to investigate. 
But seeing that this is the school, and the sun still hadn’t set yet, there's really nothing to fear. 

I walked towards the broom closet and opened the door, not expecting to see anything strange. 
What I saw had my eyes bulging out from their sockets. 



Because there was something else other than brooms and mops, something totally unexpected. It 
was so bizarre, in fact, that what I had wanted to say in the first place abruptly turned into a 
series of questions. 

“ What are you doing in here?” 

This question was to be expected in the first place. The person looked at me and said, 

“Ah K-Kyon-kun.” 

It was Asahina-san. For some reason, a relieved expression crossed her face, as she said, 

“You’ve been waiting all this time, haven’t you? That’s good. I was originally thinking about 
what I should do, but it’s good to see you here. Well, eh What should I do?” 

“Huh?” 

“Eh?” 

Asahina-san blinked and looked at me. “Well This isn’t such a bad time now, is it? We’ve 

definitely met here before ” 

I looked at her with disbelief, as she stood together with the brooms, mops, and other cleaning 
utensils in the closet. As I looked at her petite figure clad in a sailor uniform, warning signs were 
going off in my brain, like smoke pouring out from a factory chimney during the rapid economy 
growth period. 

“Asahina-san ?” 

What was the meaning of this? Were you planning on playing hide and seek inside the closet? 
No, no, that's not possible. 

The smoke had already begun to make a black haze. Suddenly 

BANG! Asahina-san and I both jumped, before realizing that it was in fact someone knocking on 
the door. Just as I was about to answer... 

“Eh? Eh! No, you can't...” 

I felt my neck tie being pulled, as my whole body was jerked forward. Asahina-san forcefully 
pulled me into the broom closet with her, before closing the closet door softly. 

Man, what does this mean? Can someone please explain to me what in the world is going on? 


“Shh, Kyon-kun, be quiet. Don’t make a sound.” 



By the light that shone through the small opening in the closet doors, I saw Asahina-san put her 
index finger to her lips. 

Even if she hadn’t said anything I wouldn’t have said anything. It was not like I had anything to 
say at the moment anyway. 

Under normal circumstances, it would be impossible to enter the broom closet. It would take the 
greatest effort for one person to squeeze in, never mind two. Haruhi had first abducted Asahina- 
san to be the official mascot because of her great figure. Needless to say, the both of us were 
meant to be together. And I mean that quite literally, as in the both of us pressed tightly against 
each other in a small broom closet. Even though there were uniforms in the way, I could still feel 
something warm and soft press against my chest. 

While I was lost in a world of my own, I suddenly heard the sound of a door being opened. It 
seemed that someone had come in, but I really couldn’t give a damn right now. Just like two 
people trying to keep each other warm with their body heat in the middle of a cottage without 
any heating facilities during winter, Asahina-san clung tightly to me, while breathing heavily. I 
had no idea why she was clinging tightly to me, but who cares. A chance like this only comes 
once in a blue moon. 

Warning signs my ass. The black haze had suddenly turned into blissful ozone, taking me into 
the very depths of wonderland itself... 

Oh well, I suppose there isn’t any need to continue talking to myself. All I want is for time to 
freeze at this moment. Nothing else. 

However, my fantasies were fast put to a stop when I heard the person who had entered the room 
open her mouth to speak. 

“Eh? There’s no-one here... But the heater is on... Ah? Isn’t this Kyon-kun’s bag? Did he go to 
the toilet?” 

I looked at Asahina-san, who had grabbed onto my neck tie. Asahina-san too looked at me, as if 
returning my gaze. 

Then, I slowly turned my head behind and looked at the narrow opening that was the only source 
of light. Even though my neck was unable to rotate 180 degrees, I could still see what was 
happening outside through the corner of my eye. 

" !” I remained silent, too shocked to respond. 

Standing outside was another Asahina-san. 

The Asahina-san outside first warmed her hands by the heater, humming to herself, then soon 
walked away from my line of sight. By the time she reappeared, a maid’s outfit was in her hand. 



She then proceeded to take off the red sailor ribbon by her collar and place it on a chair. After 
that, she unhooked her sailor uniform, and began undressing. 


“ !” Those three ellipses appeared above my head. 

Asahina-san placed her sailor blouse on the same chair, as her hands reached down to her waist. 
This time, my head was covered by someone’s palm. 

a 


The Asahina-san together in the closet with me covered my eyes with her hands, before 
forcefully rotating my neck back to its original position. Even though it was dark, I could guess 
that Asahina-san’s face would be beet red. Her lips twitched as she mouthed the words: 

"Don’t... look..." 

Even though I don’t know how to read lips, I can easily tell that was what she wanted to say. Too 
bad the warning came a bit too late. I had already seen something I wasn’t supposed to see. Well, 
to show my deepest apologies, I shut my mouth and began to reassess the situation. 


There are two Asahina-sans. 


Wait a second. If it’s Asahina-san (Big) and Asahina-san (Small) you’re talking about, then I can 
still differentiate them. It may be due to the fact that I’ve seen her so many times already that 
even if she were to appear here, I wouldn’t be surprised. 

But this is a different story. Two similar looking Asahina-sans are separated by one flimsy steel 
door; one is inside, and the other outside; one has her body pressed tightly against me, while the 
other is changing into the maid uniform. 

Both of them were the real Asahina-san. I took pride in having two abilities that far excelled 
anyone else - being able to read Nagato’s emotions, and being able to tell apart real and fake 
Asahina-sans. 

Believing in myself, I came to the conclusion that both the Asahina-sans were one and the same. 
Two of the same people existing in the same time and the same space could only mean one thing 
— Time travel. 

One of them definitely came from a different time, from the not-so-far future. I had a feeling it 
was the Asahina-san squeezed together with me in this tight space. 



These two Asahina-sans were totally alike. Even if they were twins, there would be at least a 
shred of difference 

It was only logical that I thought like this, although it only lasted for a short moment. Anyone in 
my situation would place their emotions before their rational thinking, and I think this needs no 
explanation. 

No matter how you look at it, these two Asahina-sans are not going to disappear any time soon. 
The Asahina-san inside would probably not disappear after forcefully pulling me inside the 
broom closet, then forcing me to shut my eyes, and the Asahina-san outside was brushing against 
her clothes, making sounds that greatly stimulated my imagination. They were like the inner and 
outer moats of Nijo Castle, each awaiting my signal for fortification. It was useless. Just like how 
the Siege of Osaka was a doomed to fail with the absence of Yukimura Sanada, there was no 
way I could choose between the two. Faced with these mental challenges that Plato himself 
would be proud of, only someone who had lost a couple of bolts in his brain would show no 
reaction. 

As my brain was busy analyzing the situation, my head was cracking under the strain. If this 
went on, I would surely faint. I had to think of something, fast. 

If this went on, I would probably hug the Asahina-san in front of me and squeeze her to death, or 
charge out and scare the changing Asahina-san to death. At this crucial moment, my savior 
finally appeared. 

At the sound of the door creaking open, my breathing casually returned to normal. 


It seemed that whoever had opened the door was standing there without making a sound. There 
was no sound of the door being closed either. 

“A-ah, Nagato-san,” 

Asahina-san ’s clear, crisp voice could be heard. 

“Please wait for a moment. I’ll serve you tea immediately.” 

I craned my neck around again. 

Out of the corner of my eye, I caught the sight of Asahina-san’s maid outfit fluttering as she 
walked past - that was the most I could make out from this small, miserable opening. Unable to 
see any more, I could only imagine Asahina-san, fully changed into her maid outfit, run towards 
the kettle with a pitter-patter. 



I couldn’t hear Nagato walking towards her seat. While Nagato is capable of walking silently, 
the door is too old to be closed without making any noise. That is to say, Nagato is probably still 
standing by the door right now. 

“Eh... What’s wrong?” 

Asahina-san spoke with a sense of uneasiness in her voice. I suddenly imagined the sight of 
Nagato holding her bag in one hand, and the doorknob in the other, as she stared straight at the 
broom closet. 


“Eh?” 

“There’s something I have to tell you.” 

That's Nagato’ s voice, all right. 

“Eh?” Asahina-san repeated, this time sounding surprised. 

“Come with me.” 

“EH?” Asahina-san repeated once again, sounding even more surprised than before. 

“W where are we going?” 

“Anywhere but here.” 

“B...but...W-what is it Can’t we talk here?” 

“Not here.” Nagato said simply. 

“A-ah.. .Something to s-say to me? R-really?” 

“Yes.” 

“Uh Nagato-san? Kya... You don’t have to drag me like this...” 

I could hear the sounds of Asahina-san’ s footsteps leaving, and then the door was shut with a 
bang. What followed next was silence, as the both of them gradually retreated from the club 
room. 

Thank you so much, Nagato. 

There was another bang, as I burst out from the closet. This was followed by Asahina-san rolling 
out from the closet. 



“Kyaa~” 


Asahina-san remained crouched on the floor, as she let out a cry of tiredness mixed with relief. 
“That was scary.” 

I never thought she would be more surprised than me. 

“Asahina-san,” I slowly said. “Can you tell me what is the meaning of this? What in the world is 
going on? Which time are you from?” 

Asahina-san lifted her head and looked at me, her eyes blinking furiously. “Huh? Don’t you 
know, Kyon-kun?” 

How was I supposed to know? Wait, before that, what was I supposed to know? 

“But,” 

Asahina-san made a face that resembled a sailor after a shipwreck who had just clambered onto a 
rescue boat, only to find out that the rescue boat also had a hole in it. 

“But the one who told me to come to this time period was you." 


Wait a second. 

I racked my brains for a moment. I had definitely said something like that before. That was on 
the 2nd of January, because I had needed to return to the 18th of December the year before. We 
had gone back to that time to fix things, before returning to the present. There wasn’t any 
problem with that. 

The problem was what happened after that. I don’t recall asking for Asahina-san’s help to bring 
us back to the future. 

I was sure I never told her to do that. 

Which is to say 

This Asahina-san had come from the future. 

“What time are you from?” 




“Ah 



Asahina-san shuddered for a while, before looking at her watch. 

“Eh one week plus one day... That should be 4.15PM, eight days from now.” 

“Why are you here?” 

“I have no idea.” 

That was an honest answer all right. 

“I really have no clue. I was just following your orders after all. In fact, I was just about to ask 
you, why are your requests granted so easily?” 

The sight of Asahina-san pouting reminded me of Haruhi. This expression was also really cute, 
but this was not the time to be making comparisons. I shifted my glance to the club room’s door. 

“So it was my order, one that I will issue eight days later?” 

“Yes. You told me nervously that I would know what to do when I got there. You also told me to 
tell you that your future self said 'hi'.” 

What in the world was my future self trying to say? 

This was too hard to understand. Telling Asahina-san to go back to the past, what was my future 
self trying to do? What was the point of telling her to say 'hi'? A friendly greeting? 

Wait a moment, something’s not right again. This Asahina-san said that she came from eight 
days into the future. The Asahina-san dressed in a maid outfit, which was the Asahina-san from 
this time plane, had been dragged off by Nagato. 

Huh ? What was the meaning of this? There were two Asahina-sans. One was in the club 

room together with me, while the other had been dragged off by Nagato to who-knows-where 

“I was brought all the way to the emergency staircase, where I had to listen to all kinds of 
confusing stuff.” 

Asahina-san tilted her head and said, “What am I here for? What should I do now ” 

Although Nagato didn’t say anything, her actions must have meant something, but what could 
it Ah! 

I suddenly realized what Nagato meant. 


a 


Now I see.” 



As I realized what Nagato was trying to convey, red emergency lights flashed in my brain. If 
things went on like this, we would be in serious trouble. 

I only hope that Nagato’s talk would last for a little longer. 

“Asahina-san, you never came in contact with your future self during the past week, did you?” 
“Erm That’s right ” 

Asahina-san nodded honestly, looking a bit worried. If that was so, we needed to make haste. 
Because I couldn’t let both Asahina-sans see each other. 

Nagato had already noticed this. She had sensed this Asahina-san and me hiding in the closet, 
and knew of the consequences should both Asahina-sans meet. That was why she had pulled the 
maid version of Asahina-san out of the club room - to buy time for me and this Asahina-san to 
escape. 

Haruhi and Koizumi might be here any second now. Just like salmon returning to their original 
stream to spawn, most of the SOS Brigade members had already made it a habit to return to the 
club room when we wanted to rest. I know, because I was like that too. 

If Haruhi happened to stumble across two Asahina-sans in two different places, I don’t know if 
she would buy the story that Asahina-san had a secret twin. 

I had to get this Asahina-san out of this place, or there would be consequences to face. 

“Let’s go, Asahina-san.” 

I grabbed my bag, slowly opened the club room door, and took a peek outside. There was not a 
single soul in sight. I waved my hands at Asahina-san, signaling the coast was clear. Asahina-san 
hurriedly ran over, as my eyes once again swept through the deserted school corridors. The 
countdown had already begun. There were only two rules. One, we couldn’t let the Asahina-san 
from this time bump into this Asahina-san, and two, we couldn’t let Haruhi notice that there were 
two Asahina-sans. I looked at the clothes rack, and for a moment thought about dressing 
Asahina-san up in order to avoid detection, but I gave up on that idea after realizing that those 
outfits would serve to attract even more unneeded attention. It was a good thing this Asahina-san 
was wearing a normal sailor suit uniform. Like they say, seek camouflage amongst trees by 
dressing like a leaf. 

I grabbed Asahina-san’s wrist, and hurried out of the club room. Thus began our perilous journey 
across the school corridors. 

“Are you sure it’s eight days from now?” I asked as I walked. 


“Yes. You told me to return here at exactly 3.45PM, eight days from now.” 



Even Asahina-san’s footsteps were larger than before. Taking the steps two at a time, the both of 
us went down the stairs and moved away from the club room. I just hoped that Okabe-sensei 
would spend a longer time lecturing Haruhi. 

“If that is true, then you must surely know what will happen throughout this week, right?” 

After descending from the stairs, I paused for a brief moment, before deciding to take the 
shortest path to the shoe locker directly across the courtyard. Although the chances of bumping 
into Haruhi were higher, it was nevertheless the fastest route possible. 

Asahina-san stopped to catch her breath, as she said, “We’re almost there, right?” 

"Is there any need to return to the past or the future?" 

“No. It was you who forcefully shoved me into the closet, after all.” 

First ordering her to return to this time, and now forcefully shoving her into a broom closet? 
What was going on? What was I thinking? Even I couldn’t understand my own actions. Why 
hadn’t the future me tagged along? That would have probably saved me the time and trouble of 
thinking all by myself. 

We managed to reach the shoe locker without meeting anyone. It was then that I suddenly 
realized — 

“Where should we go from here?” 

I knew that we had to leave the school, but, where do we go then? Where could I hide Asahina- 
san? 

Now what should I do? Should I tell her to return to the future, eight days later, without 
accomplishing anything? 

“That won’t do.” 

Asahina-san looked at me with lonely eyes. 

“If possible, I too wish to return to the future. I’ve tried contacting my supervisors, but they 
wouldn’t permit it. I don’t even know when am I allowed to return, as that’s highly classified 
information.” 

So, does this mean that the Asahina-san eight days from the future would have to accomplish 
something, be it today or tomorrow, before she was allowed to return? Then let’s just assume 
that this is true, and ignore it for the time being. 


But what was that “something”? 



That’s what I wanted to know the most. Why hadn’t my future self told her anything? 

Just as I was busy cursing my future self, Asahina-san had already scrambled over to the second- 
year- student’s shoe locker. I too was about to change from my school shoes into my sneakers 

“Asahina-san!” 

I quickly searched for the time-traveler. Soon enough, I found Asahina-san tip-toeing to reach 
her shoe locker, which was located too high above her for her to reach. 

“What’s the matter?” Asahina-san said as she turned her head, still maintaining the same pose. 
Oh it’s nothing much. 

“These pair of shoes belong to the you in this current time plane.” 

“O-oh You’re right ” 

Asahina-san shut the locker door with a bang, as she said: 

“If I had changed into these shoes, the “me” in this time plane would be crushed. And I don’t 
recall losing anything this week either ” 

That wasn’t all. If I hadn’t stopped her, this Asahina-san would have placed her current school 
shoes into the locker. When it was time for the Asahina-san from this time plane to return home, 
she would open the locker door, only to find a pair of school shoes identical to the ones she was 
wearing, down to the exact size. 

“Y-yes ” 

Asahina-san said nervously. 

“But then, how should I leave then?” 

The only thing you can do is walk around in your school shoes. You may feel embarrassed or 
something, but there’s no other choice. It’s not like we can just nick someone else’s shoes 
anyway. Besides, instead of asking “What should we do?”, I think the more important question 
would be, “Where should we go?” 

While thinking deeply about this matter, I opened my own shoe locker, and saw something 
inside. 

I suddenly felt a wave of nostalgia. It was another message from the future. 


I should've known. I knew you'd make some arrangements, Asahina-san, 



On top of my slightly dirty sneakers, was a special letter just for me. 


Asahina-san and I embraced the chillingly cold wind, as we made our way down the slope. 

A few North High students looked at us as we passed. It felt as if they were staring straight at the 
empty handed, school-shoe-wearing Asahina-san, wondering how she was so different from 
before. Or maybe it was just my imagination? 

Standing on my right, Asahina-san’s long, maroon hair danced peacefully in the wind. Her 
expression, however, was far from peaceful, just like the darkening of the evening sky before a 
snowstorm. 

I too wore a look similar to Asahina-san’s. I mean, I had just escaped from the club room. 
Skipping club activities without prior notice was sure to upset the Brigade Commander. Unless I 
was able to come up with a reason or excuse that satisfied Haruhi, I was sure to be sacrificed in 
one of her future “punishments”. 

But even so, there was no way I could just ignore Asahina-san. For ah I know, she could be in 
grave danger. 

Anyone seeing Asahina-san walking under the cold, winter sky would get the urge to protect her. 
Since there was no one else suitable in sight, I guess it was all up to me to protect her. 

“I’m sorry.” 

Asahina-san said with a monotonous yet cute voice. 

“I’m always causing trouble for you ” 

“Oh, it’s nothing.” 

I replied without waiting for her to finish. 

“It was me who told you to come here in the first place. So technically, it’s my fault.” 

That applied to both me and Asahina-san (big). Why couldn’t our future selves reveal more 
information? Why do they insist on distancing themselves from us? Do people from the future 
hate their past so much? 

I reached for my pocket and tightly gripped the envelope within. 

Inside the blank envelope was a small note that read, 



“Please take care of the Asahina Mikuru beside you”. 

There was no name, no address, nothing whatsoever. There was no way I would be able to forget 
that neat, tiny font. Last spring, I received a similar letter written in the same handwriting 
requesting me to wait in the club room during lunch break. It was then I first met the grown-up 
version of Asahina-san, and received a vital clue to escaping the sealed dimension with Haruhi. I 
was sure it was she who wrote the letter. 

But entrusting Asahina-san (small) to me? Does it mean I can do anything, Asahina-san (big)? 
Even as far as kissing her? 

Besides, I showed that letter to Asahina-san as well. I don't suppose there'll be any problems. She 
would understand the meaning of "Please take care of the Asahina Mikuru beside you". If the 
letter was for my eyes only, then the message wouldn't refer to "Asahina Mikuru" but rather "my 
past self". 

Asahina-san looked at the letter in surprise, as she stuttered, “W-what’s going o-on ?” It 

seems she didn’t notice the letter was written exactly in her own handwriting. 

Come to think of it, even if she did notice, she probably wouldn’t be surprised. During our 
second visit to the 18th of December, she saw someone else other than myself, Nagato and 
Asakura. Even though she was immediately put to sleep, she must have felt her presence. 

There was also that van incident that happened last month. After she talked to that bespectacled 
kid that lived near Haruhi’s house, she appeared so depressed that I attempted to console her. 
Even though I wasn’t successful, Asahina-san told me that she just realized something. I have no 
idea what she realized, but just like Koizumi said, the members of the SOS Brigade seem to be 
changing, ever so slightly. 

Koizumi said that the number of sealed spaces created by Haruhi had decreased, and they were 
beginning to happen less frequently too. 

Koizumi also said that Nagato’s aura of “alienness” had decreased. 

And even though you never said anything, Koizumi, you’ve also changed, isn’t that right, Mr. 
Vice Commander? 

I could feel it; Haruhi had gradually opened up to the public. Be it during the cultural festival, 
during the competition with the Computer Research Society, or during the various SOS Brigade 
outings, Haruhi had definitely changed. No longer was she the same melancholic, anti-social 
individual she was during her first year. She would smile more often, and even communicate 
with unknown strangers. 

"If anyone here is an alien, a time traveler, slider, or an esper, then come find me!" 


To find aliens, time travelers, and espers, and play with them! 



It’s as if she knew the truth after all. 

I viewed all of this as part of her growth. 
Though I had no idea about my own growth. 


About half an hour later, I brought Asahina-san into my house. 

“So that’s why.” 

Asahina-san said as she removed her shoes and placed them by the door. “So that’s why Kyon- 
kun didn’t come to the club room that day.” 

There was no way I could let Asahina-san return to her own house. Since I couldn’t think of a 
better place, the only place left was my own house. If there were any other time travelers like 
Asahina-san, I might have considered letting her stay with them. 

“There’s a possibility such people exist, it’s just that I know nothing about them.” 

Asahina-san wore an expression similar to a puppy after competing in a dog show, one of grief 
mixed with melancholy. My expression was probably similar to hers. Even though many 
questions appeared in my head, I didn’t feel like searching for answers right now. 

Just then, my sister, who had totally nothing to do with our current problems, rushed over to 
Asahina-san ’s side. 

“Ah, it’s Mikuru!” 

My sister was just about to drag Shamisen out from under my bed. Just as I opened my room 
door, she fixed her gaze on the beautiful Asahina-san, who was every North High male’s fantasy, 
before rushing forward towards her. 

“Umm, yes, sorry for disturbing.” 

“Huh, it’s just you and Kyon-kun? Where’s Haru-nyan?” 

My sister looked at Asahina-san, as I grabbed the ten-year-old fifth-grader by her collar. 
“Haruhi’s still in school. And don’t come into my room without my permission.” 


I knew that no matter how many times I told her, it would be useless. However, it took me a lot 
of effort to find a suitable hiding place for Asahina-san. I didn’t want anyone to find out about it. 



“But, Shami doesn’t want to come out, either.” 


My sister tugged at Asahina-san’s skirt, and giggled softly. 

“Where are Yuki-chan and Koizumi-kun? And Tsuruya-san? Aren’t they coming?” 

My sister was used to using whatever nickname she would hear. This can be seen ever since she 
started calling me Kyon. This little fifth-grader who had no idea what respect was. Come on, 
can’t you call me “Onii-chan” for once? 

“Oooh, it’s a date! Am I right?” 

I drove her out of my room before shutting the door tightly. 

I sat on the floor facing Asahina-san, and said, “Tell me briefly what happened, I mean, what 
will happen, this week.” 

“Umm ” 

Asahina-san paused for a moment, before saying, “Eight days ago, and that’s today, I went to the 
club room, but noticed that no one was there. The heater, however, was already switched on.” 

That’s what I saw, alright. 

“Just after I finished changing, Nagato-san entered the room, and hurriedly dragged me to the 
emergency staircase ” 

That’s what I saw partially, alright. 

“When I came back, Kyon-kun’s bag was already missing, and Koizumi-kun was already 
inside.” 

What a narrow escape. 

“About 30 minutes later, Suzumiya-san entered the club room.” 

Now that’s some career advice. I shouldn’t have panicked after all. 

“Suzumiya-san looked a bit angry.” 

Because she argued with Okabe-sensei about her ambitions. If there were any application forms 
for her desired ambitions, I would want one, too. 

“She looked out of the window with killer eyes, and drank three cups of tea in a — ah!” 



Asahina-san eyes bulged wide with terror, as if she had just seen a dead body in the corner of my 
room. 

“Suzumiya-san noticed that Kyon-kun wasn’t in the club room ” 

She noticed? 

“And she made a phone call.” 

Just as she had finished making that statement, my cell phone rang. 

Oh shit. 

Thinking back about it, for Asahina-san, it was like a video replay; but for me, it was a live 
broadcast. This wasn’t the time to listen to her slow recollections. I hadn’t even thought of an 
excuse for skipping brigade activities. If I answered, I would probably become the next 
sacrificial goat, but if I ignored the phone call, things would seem even more suspicious. Well, I 
guess I should ask before answering? 

“Asahina-san, did I answer the phone then?” 

“Um I think you did.” 

Well then, here goes. 

“Hello?” 

“Where are you?” 

Haruhi started off with her inquisition sounding frustrated. I answered her truthfully. 

“In my room.” 

“What? You’re slacking off?” 

“It was an emergency.” 

I began to weave my lie. 

“What emergency?” 

“Well ” 

Just then Shamisen crawled out from under my bed. 

“It’s like this. Shamisen was sick, so I brought him to the vet.” 



“You?” 


“Yes. Only my sister was at home then. It was she who told me.” 

“What kind of sickness?” 

“Umm. . . Alopecia areata.” 

It was a name I came up from nowhere. For some reason, Asahina-san covered her cherry-like 
lips. 

“Alopecia areata? Shamisen?” 

“Yep, the vet said that it was due to stress. He’s currently quietly resting in my room now.” 

“Do cats have nerves that detect stress? And what’s this about resting in your room, hasn’t he 
always been staying in your room?” 

“Well, that’s right, but you see, since my sister forced him to play with her too often, it’s caused 
stress to build up within him. I’ve decided to turn my room into his shelter, and I'm not letting 
my sister come in.” 

“I see ” 

Haruhi snorted and fell quiet. Did she buy it? 

She then proceeded to say: “Is anyone else there with you?” 


I brought my phone away from my ear, as I studied the time displayed on the screen. 

How did she know? Asahina-san hadn’t said a word. She even covered her mouth with both her 
hands to prevent accidentally making any noises. 

“No one’s here.” 

“Oh, is that so? I just noticed that your voice seemed different than usual, so I decided to ask 
you.” 

Her intuition is still as sharp as usual, I see. 

“It’s just Shamisen. Should I put him on the line?” 

“Forget it. Just tell him that I wish him a speedy recovery. Bye.” 



And to my surprise, she hung up. 


I threw my cell phone onto my bed, and looked at the flowery cat, who was leaning on Asahina- 
san’s lap. If Haruhi had really decided to drop by for a visit, I would be in trouble. 

“And then? What did Haruhi do?” 

Asahina-san thought for a moment, while caressing Shamisen’s ears. “Umm We stayed at the 

club room until five, and then everyone went home. Suzumiya-san she was really quiet. All 

she did was flip through some magazines ” 

Haruhi’ s calm before the storm. Even Asahina-san had noticed it. 

Had anyone else noticed? I bet Nagato had. 

Shamisen lifted his paw and placed it on Asahina-san’s kneecap, as if claiming it as his own. 

Asahina-san then stroked his back, and said, “It’s as if she was different than usual I’m sorry, 

I can’t really remember.” 

That’s to be expected. If someone asked me what was Koizumi’s expression last Monday, all I 
would do was shrug and say, just like usual. 

“What about the rest? Tomorrow, or the day after tomorrow?” 

Asahina-san gently grabbed the purring Shamisen’s tail, as she lowered her head and said: 
“Where should I stop?” 

Just tell me what the future has in store, I’ll figure out the rest. 

“Alright then. Next, during the holidays, all of us will be going on a treasure hunt.” 

A treasure hunt? 

“Yes. Suzumiya-san came in the club room holding a map in her hands, and told us that we were 
to go dig for treasure.” 

Dig? 

“Yes. It was Tsuruya-san that gave Suzumiya-san that map. She said that she found it in the store 
room. Apparently, it was a map that her great great ancestor left.” 

Asahina-san waved her fingers in the air, like a school of invisible silver fish swimming in the 
air. 


“An old map drawn using black ink.” 



Tsuruya-san Once again you hand Haruhi something weird. And this time it requires digging? 

It’s not like we’re in ancient times anymore, where would we find a place to dig? 

“A mountain.” 

Asahina-san’s answer was clear and simple. 

“There’s a mountain behind Tsuruya-san’s house. If you look carefully while standing on the 
slope during your journey back from school, you should be able to notice something round in the 
distance.” 

Just hearing about it made me feel tired. It’s not like I hold any vendetta against the place or 
anything, it’s just that turning an entire mountain upside down just for the sake of some buried 
treasure was just as stupid as going on a picnic in this freezing climate. Just to make things clear, 
Tsuruya-san owning a mountain was nothing to be surprised at. I mean, if they are rich enough to 
afford a private skiing facility in the midst of the wilderness, what’s to be surprised at owning a 
mountain behind their house? 

I sighed loudly without any inclination to conceal it, and said, “Did we find anything?” 

“Well No.” 

Even though she hesitated slightly, Asahina-san continued to shake her head. 

“It’s not like there’s ancient treasure anywhere else anyway.” 

I better stop asking. Holidays were hard to come by, yet I had to waste it trying to find some 
buried treasure that I knew I wouldn’t find. There’s nothing worse than doing something you 
know won’t work out in the end. 

“Then even during Saturday and Sunday ” 

Do we still have to dig? Why dont we just dig in Tsuruya-san’s front yard? Who knows, maybe 
we’ll discover an underground hot spring or something. 

“No. During the weekend, we have to go for um a city wide search.” 

So it was really going to be that activity after all. Searching the city in order to discover any 
mysterious events was one of the SOS Brigade’s main activities. Come to think of it, we haven’t 
done it for a while now. 

“We won’t be searching for two straight days, will we?” 


“Erm No. I mean yes.” 



For some reason, Asahina-san averted her gaze from me, and said, “Because Monday’s also a 
holiday ” 

I suddenly remembered that Monday was the day that the entrance exams were held. Students 
already enrolled there were allowed to skip school for the day. 

So did we find anything strange? 

That shouldn’t be the reason Asahina-san was sent back to the past, right? 

“No, none at all.” 

Asahina-san said as her maroon hair swept the floor. 

“Just as usual, we would go to the cafe and have lunch ” 

That just makes things even more complicated. If what Asahina-san said was true, then there 
wouldn't be any reason to send Asahina-san back to the past, would there? Now if only she had 
traveled from a few months or few years into the future, then maybe that would make some 
sense. But for her to travel back one week in time? Are you sure there hasn’t been any mistake? 

I silently observed Asahina-san, who was stroking Shamisen’s belly. 

Since it was only a week, there would be no need to trouble Nagato in order to return to the 
future. Asahina-san and I had once returned from the 7th of July three years ago with Nagato’s 
aid. The both of us were frozen in time, as three years silently passed before us. It seems that my 
future self had learned a lesson. Concealing Asahina-san in a place where no one would notice 
her for a week, it wouldn’t be long before she returned to her original time plane. There would be 
no need for time freezing. As for any side effects, the only one I could think of was Asahina-san 
aging one week older, but I doubt it would make any difference. 

But what was the point? If that was so, there would be no reason to send Asahina-san back to the 
past. Something must have happened, something that forced my future self to send her back to 
this time. There was also Asahina-san (big)’s letter, which further confirmed the matter 

“What was I like when I told you to return? Did I do or say anything strange?” 

“Erm ” 

Asahina-san closed her eyes as she continued to stroke Shamisen, who was curled up into a ball. 

I might as well try a different approach. 

“Tell me what my self eight days from the future did when he told you to return here.” 


“That I can remember clearly, since to me, it happened just today.” 



Asahina-san removed her hand from the flowery cat, and began tracing shapes in the air. 

“We were having an activity in the school’s front yard, an SOS Brigade style lucky draw.” 

For what reason? 

“Anyone who wished to participate had to pay a small sum of money. . . The winner would 
receive a five hundred yen coupon. Suzumiya-san was busy holding up a megaphone ” 

“That should be to gather some funds for our future activities.” 

Asahina-san continued to explain, as if in great difficulty. “I-I was in charge of doing the 
promoting. Being in a crowd of so many people made me feel nervous ” 

So this was Haruhi’s "Operation Payback", huh. 

“Asahina-san, what costume did you wear then? Don’t tell me it was the miko costume ” 

“Yes. How did you know?” 

That was just like Haruhi’s doing. In order to attract attention, she would start with a striking 
costume. The regular Asahina-san was already attractive enough. After dressing her up, she 
would be able to radiate an aura of charm that no one would be able to resist. That aura was 
probably what attracted the large crowd. 

“I handed the winners their prizes, shook hands with them, and took photos with them.” 

Asahina-san grabbed Shamisen’s fur, as she said uncomfortably, “Then Kyon-kun pulled my 
hand, and took me into the club room. You ordered me to change into my sailor uniform, and 
even though I didn’t know what was going on, I duly obliged. You then told me to wait in the 
broom closet, and instructed me to return to the past, eight days ago, at precisely a quarter to 
four. You also told me that your past self would be waiting for me, and when I did meet him, I 
was to tell him that you said 'hi'. I was also told to follow everything you said.” 

Asahina-san removed her fingers from the air, before slowly tracing her index finger on the 
patterns on Shamisen’s back. 

“The usage of the TPDD was quickly approved. It was so fast it was unbelievable. It was like 
they were waiting for me to ask for approval.” 

That could be the case, because your superiors already know what you’re going to go through. 
What I didn’t understand was, why did my future self so willingly play the role of Asahina-san’s 
superior? Why did I instruct her to return to the past, instead of waiting for them to tell her to? I 
admit that I had told Asahina-san to time travel a few times, but every time I did so, I would be 
filled with guilt. If possible, I didn’t want her to time travel again, or, at the very least, didn’t 
want to be the one to tell her to. Come on, Asahina-san (big), tell me something. I’m lost here. 



The Asahina-san before me once again began to look depressed. I immediately recalled that this 
was what she looked like a month ago, during the van incident. Don’t worry, Asahina-san, if it’s 
helplessness we’re talking about, I’m not that better off either, because right now, I have no idea 
what to do, and I don’t know who to count on either. 

“Sigh.” 

Asahina-san and I both sighed at the same time. As if on cue, Shamisen also yawned. 

“Kyon-kun, open up ” 

The sound of my sister yelling could be heard through the door. Judging from her voice, she 
must be balancing a tray too big for her, filled with cakes and juice, while carefully making her 
way to my room. Even though I wasn’t a very sharp guy, once I saw three sets on the tray, I 
knew that she wasn’t leaving. She must have also inherited the same dimness as I did, for she 
conveniently failed to notice that it was a rare chance for Asahina-san and me to be together in 
my room at this late hour. Blame genetics, if you will. 

I immediately shot a look at her that read “Get out!”, but she ignored me and sat beside Asahina- 
san. 

“Does Shami want a cake?” 

My sister put a small slice of cake near Shamisen’s nose. Asahina-san smiled warmly at her 
antics. 

My sister can be useful sometimes. As your brother, I really hope that your innocence doesn't 
disappear as you grow up. 


After my sister played with Shamisen and Asahina-san, Asahina-san and I finally left, heading 
outside. 

My watch read six fifteen. The sky was already darkening. It was still a month till spring. 
“What should we do, Kyon-kun?” 

Walking beside me, Asahina-san breathed small white clouds. If she appeared to be walking 
peculiarly, it was because she was wearing my spare shoes. That’s better than wearing school 
shoes, I thought, but for shoes meant for Cinderella, they might have been a little bit too big. 

“That’s it.” I said as I too spat out white clouds. 



I had considered letting Asahina-san stay at my house. That way, my sister would have been 
really happy too. But after much thought, I gave up on the idea. My parents would probably want 
to know why she wasn’t going back to her own house, and if word reached Haruhi that Asahina- 
san stayed together with me at my house, I dare not imagine what disaster might befall me. If she 
really did come to my house to visit Shamisen, a pair of scissors and a quick snip would do the 
trick, but there was no way I could hide Asahina-san from her. 

Petite Asahina-san’s footsteps began to become clumsier, as she stumbled closer to me. When 
she accidentally collided with my shoulders, she let out a small shriek, and immediately hopped 
away from me. That made her even cuter than usual. If it wasn’t only due to her shoes being too 
large for her, but her desire to depend on me that made her subconsciously lean against me, I 
would be very happy. 

But I couldn’t just think about my happiness alone. 

I didn’t have that much confidence within me. If Asahina-san did indeed depend on me, the 
effect would be like a domino piece leaning on another. There were only two possibilities. Either 
it would fall and collide with the others, or it would remain standing tall. 

If I was indeed a domino piece, who would I choose to lean on? Since Asahina-san (future) 
chose to lean on me, who should I choose? There weren’t many choices. 

The first one I rejected would be Haruhi. If anyone dares to ask why, I’ll scramble his brains, 
since he doesn’t appear to have any sense of shame. 

Asahina-san (present) was a no-no. She would probably believe that she had an identical twin 
and go ballistic. That would make things worse. And I don’t intend to travel to the past to fix 
things up. 

Koizumi, on the other hand, seemed quite reliable, but I had no faith in how his 'Organization' 
treated time travelers. Entrusting Asahina-san to them was definitely not a good idea. Arakawa- 
san, Mori-san, and the Tamaru brothers might seem nice, but if they were as Koizumi said 
merely low-level minions, then it's going to be some time before their superiors can gain my 
trust. 

Under the rules of elimination, there was only one name that came in mind. She was the only one 
that realized our current situation, and the true person that protected the SOS Brigade, silently 
pulling strings behind our backs. Even though she had some weird superiors behind her, I felt 
that I could trust them more than Koizumi’s 'Organization' 

She was the only one left. 

So where should we go? There’s not much of a choice, is there? 


That is to say, it was finally time for Nagato Yuki to step up to the stage. 



Now wasn’t the time to explain. Maybe it was better if I grouped aliens and time travelers 
together. I mean, to travel from the past to the future, we would certainly require Nagato’s help. 
This seemed like a better choice. 

And also, I remembered something. 

In order to prevent Asahina-san (Present) from seeing Asahina-san (Future), she had forcefully 
pulled Asahina-san (Present) from the club room, allowing me and Asahina-san (Future) to 
escape. In other words, she knew what was happening, and maybe she could tell us what was 
going on. 

“Are we going to Nagato-san’s house?” 

Asahina-san looked at me, as she slowed down her footsteps. I encouraged her by saying, “I’m 
sure she’ll help us. She’s also got a spare room, and it’s just a week after all, I don’t think she’ll 
mind you staying there.” 

If possible, I too would like to stay. I even thought of a perfect excuse. 

“But ” 

She sounded a bit down. “Nagato-san and I have umm well Do I have to stay there 

for umm a whole week?” 

There’s no need to worry. Nagato would never hurt Asahina-san. We’ve always relied on her in 
the past. Didn’t we seek her help when we went time traveling? 

“That may be so, but ” 

Strangely, Asahina-san looked at me with accusing eyes. “If I stay with her, won’t Nagato-san 
feel bad ” 

“Huh? Why?” 

How would you know what made Nagato feel good or bad? I bet that even if someone stripped 
stark naked before her and started dancing a nude dance, she probably wouldn't even flinch. 

I eagerly awaited her answer, but all she did was turn her face from me, and said, 


Oh, never mind.” 



Conveying thoughts in speech, and in the most subtle manner possible, that was one of Nagato’s 
specialties. That remains true even now. 


Standing outside the luxury apartment, I punched out that familiar number, and duly awaited her 
voice. 


“It’s me. And Asahina-san too. It's like this ” 

“Come in.” 

I wonder how many times has the same conversation happened? I’ve brought both big and small 
versions of Asahina-san here, and if memory serves me right, this should be the fourth time. The 
first time was during Tanabata four years ago, along with Asahina-san (small). The second time 
was also on that day, but with Asahina-san (big). The third and last time, was during the 2nd of 
January, just last month. 

Asahina-san wore a look of anxiousness on her face. This was also something I was used to. That 
same expression would remain unchanged as the elevator ascended. 

The way she tightly gripped the sleeve of my shirt, there was no way to describe how grateful I 
was. With a face as tiny and cute as hers, there was no reason not to protect her. If I didn’t 
protect her, even if the Earth was reduced to dust, I wouldn’t be able to find anyone more 
suitable than her to protect. 


Nagato’s apartment door was half opened, as if awaiting us. That sailor uniform was yet again 
something I was used to. The only times that I had seen her in casual clothes were during the 
summer vacation and the winter vacation. The way she looked at us was nothing special, but 
Asahina-san started to freak out at that very moment. 

“Ah well Sorry, Nagato Some rather unexpected things have happened, so we’ve decided 

to come here ” 

That was the truth, after all. 

“It’s okay.” 

Nagato nodded her head stiffly. 

“Come in.” 

Asahina-san stuttered as she remained motionless on the spot, that oh-so-familiar reaction when 
faced with Nagato. I ushered her in with a push of my hand, and she finally stepped in the door. 



Such embarrassment made me wonder how had she once slept in this very room just one month 
ago. 

“Sorry to disturb you ” 

Nagato’s apartment was once bare and empty, devoid of any signs of interest, and filled only 
with living necessities. Now, there was actually a large curtain draped over the window in the 
living room, and it was a winter-style curtain to boot. This wasn’t here when I visited last spring, 
and its existence proved of large significance. The games that we had played during Christmas 
were still rolled up and placed near the wall, but there was still no sign of any rugs or TVs. There 
was only a lone heater in the room, and a sturdy table. I had an urge to check out Nagato’s 
bedroom, but my instincts warned me against it. If it was plastered with cute, pink wall paper 
with a flowery wall hanging, and a stuffed doll in the shape of a lamb by her pillow, I would 
totally erase any memory of Nagato Yuki from my mind, and start to know her again from 
scratch. But even so, I dare say that even if you traced time back to the Mesopotamian era, you 
wouldn’t be able to detect any traces of such a thing. 

I had already heard from Asahina-san what would happen in the future, at least until tomorrow. 
Now, I had important questions to ask. 

“Umm, Nagato, do you know that Asahina-san is from the future ” Oh wait, everyone knows 

that. “Sorry, I mean, do you know that this is another Asahina-san from eight days in the future?" 

I said this while sitting by the heater in the living room. 

“I do.” 

Nagato sat kneeling before me, and stared straight at Asahina-san. Asahina-san jumped in fright, 
before hurriedly sitting by my side, and lowered her gaze. 

“Asahina-san doesn’t seem to know why she was sent here.” I explained. “From what she told 
me, it seems that my future self sent her here Nagato, do you know why?” 

Even if she didn’t know why, I was sure that Nagato had means to find out, so when the word 
“No” escaped her lips, I didn’t feel uneasy. I mean, all she had to do was to perform that 
synchronization thingy to find out. 

But Nagato’s next reply totally betrayed my expectations. 

“No. In my current state, there is no way that I can synchronize with my past or future self.” 
Before I had a chance to ask why, Nagato said, 


“Because there is a restriction program.” 



I still don’t get it. Why? 

“My freedom is currently being limited, since there is still the possibility that I may go astray 
again. This is what they have decided.” 

This restriction rubbish, was it placed by your boss? 

“The Integrated Data Sentient Entity has approved of it.” 

Nagato’s expressionless face appeared to be different from usual. 

“But it was placed by me personally, by my own will.” 

Nagato said indifferently. 

“A password is required to lift the seal, and the password is governed by someone else. My will 
alone is insufficient to disable the program. And I have no intentions of doing so.” 

So that is to say, Nagato had no way of synchronizing with her future self. She had no means of 
knowing what would happen in the future, and consequently, what would happen eight days 
later. If so, what should I do? 

“Just act according to your better judgment.” 

A pair of black pupils stared directly at me. 

“Til try my best to do so.” 

I could only drop my jaw. Nagato was actually showing self-awareness. Wait, am I being 
lectured by Nagato here? 

“Even though I have lost the ability to perform synchronization, I have obtained freedom beyond 
what I had imagined. Now I am able to act according to my own free will, unbound by the 
future.” 

Nagato sure has changed. Since when has she loved to talk this much? 

“I feel as though I carry the responsibility of shaping my own future.” 

Nagato continued to stare at me, as she said: 

“The same applies to you. Since ” 

Nagato said softly, “It’s your own future.” 



I closed my eyes and drifted into deep thought. 


Let’s say I had the ability to see the future. I would know what my future self was trying to do. 
And let’s say that no matter what I did, I wouldn’t be able to change the future, so the only 
choice was to walk the same path. So, should I follow the flow of time naturally? Is that the right 
choice? That I would know when the time came? 

After a few minutes of internal struggle, I finally came to the conclusion that since I didn’t have 
the power to see the future, I didn’t have a choice. Come to think of it, I didn’t have the power 
from the start either. This brings me back to square one. Or does it? 

Nagato must have put up quite a struggle, not only with the Integrated Sentient whatever, but 
also with her own will. She must have known that she would run astray, and tried her best to 
prevent it from happening. Maybe it’s because she knew of it from the start, but no matter what 
she did, she wouldn’t be able to change the outcome. It’s not a matter of who’s to blame, and 
even if it did come to that, I’m sure I was equally guilty. I had noticed slight changes in Nagato 
ever since summer, but I didn’t give it too much thought. Even though I had a slight urge to let 
Haruhi take the slate instead of me, I didn’t want anybody to go through the mental stress I was 
going through right now. 

Just last month, this Nagato had said to the past Nagato: 

"Because I don’t want to." 

Nagato knew that her past self would do what she had to do, or at least, she believed that she 
would do what she had to do. 

There is no need to decide upon things which are yet to happen. Isn’t that what I’ve been doing 
all along? 

I listened to my future self’s voice, returned to the past, and told my own self those exact same 
words. I never told him what to do after that. I left it for him to decide. 

Because I know there’ll be a way. 

And I did think of a way. That’s why I’m standing here right now. 

“It doesn’t matter.” 

Nagato’ s voice woke me up from my hallucinations. Those expressionless black eyes looked 
even brighter than usual. “My highest priority is to protect you and Suzumiya Haruhi.” 

Oh how I hope you would include Asahina-san as well. And while we’re at it, let’s throw 
Koizumi in too. During the Snow Mountain incident, that fellow promised to help you as well. 



Nagato nodded and said, 


“If the enemy tries to interfere.” 

Could you give us an example? What kind of enemies? 

“The Macrospatial Quantum Cosmic Existence - An entity that is of different origin from the 
Integrated Data Sentient Entity. They have tried to imprison us in a different sealed space once." 

So you’re referring to those guys behind the Snow Mountain incident, eh. 

“They are a similar, but separate entity. Compared to the Integrated Data Sentient Entity, they 
exist in a different—” 

Nagato shut her mouth, as if searching for a suitable word. 

“—place. Even though both of them know of the existence of the other, there hasn’t been any 
contact before, because the both of them feel that even if there was contact, there couldn’t be 
mutual understanding.” 

“However, they have noticed.” 

Noticed what? 

“Suzumiya Haruhi.” 

How should I describe this feeling of nostalgia? Everyone had noticed Haruhi. Everyone wanted 
to observe her very actions, be it her usual antics or her eccentric behaviors. Some had even 
wanted to pitch in and join the fun. 

“So they were the ones behind the Snow Mountain incident.” 

“Yes. They were the ones who gave me extra burden, creating a scenario hard to escape with my 
own powers alone.” 

Then what were your bosses doing then? Having a lunch break? 

“Modifications were made so that I could not fully understand what the Integrated Data Sentient 
Entity was trying to convey.” 

But then Nagato lowered her head, and said. “But I know that that was one of their means of 
‘negotiation’.” 

What negotiation? We were totally put in the dark. That kind of method is totally unacceptable in 
modern day society. 



“They are a life form totally different to us. We cannot understand how they think, and it is 
estimated that they do not understand how we think.” 

Isn’t there any other means of communicating with them? I really want to know how they think 
about Haruhi. 

“There is currently no means of transmitting data with 100% efficiency.” 

That’s what I thought. They were the kind to use snowstorms instead of summer days to relay a 
message. 

“If it is a minor transmission, it may be possible.” 

Nagato moved her neck and said, “As long as they create a living humanoid interface like 
myself, even if they couldn’t achieve 100% efficiency, they would still be able to achieve a high 
percentage, especially through means of speech.” 

There wouldn’t be some of them here already, would there? 

“There may be.” 

Even though I didn’t wish for that possibility, I felt as if I would be even more surprised if they 
didn’t have at least one humanoid interface. What was this feeling, I wonder? 

“Ah ” 

That ah~ was made by Asahina-san. 

“Could it be ” 

Asahina-san looked as if she had understood something, and looked at Nagato as if she had just 
realized something shocking. Nagato also looked at Asahina-san. The sight of an alien locking 
sights with a time traveler freaked me out. 

“What’s the matter?” 

“No, it’s nothing Really ” 

As I was astonished by Asahina-san’s stunned reaction, Nagato got up, looked at us and said, 
“I’ll go and make some tea.” 

After making that statement, she headed towards the kitchen, before stopping halfway and 
saying, 

“Or would you like ” 



Like what? As I awaited her response, she came up with one, simple word, 


“Dinner?” 


Today’s dinner was canned curry, specially prepared by Nagato herself. As I saw her empty five 
people’s share into the cooker, I suddenly felt that it was Nagato’s usual doing. If it were Haruhi, 
she would have added some strange ingredients into the cooker. It was hard to describe. I wonder 
which should I choose, taste or happiness? 

The reason why Asahina-san was willing to sit down in the living room with an uneasy look, was 
because Nagato had told her to sit still and not move. When Asahina-san suggested that she help 
out, Nagato simply said, “You are my guest”, and started to prepare dinner. All she did was take 
out five cans of curry from a drawer, and start to slice up some cabbages. 

After a while, the previously empty plate was filled with rice, and topped with steaming curry. 
Even in such simplicity, I was able to feel a sense of joy. This was the main dish. A side dish - a 
bowl of salad - was also laid before me and Asahina-san. An extremely uncomfortable Asahina- 
san bowed very low before looking at the plate of rice that was piled like a mountain before her. 
She made a face that suggested she was in a difficult position, and, like a gastric patient trying to 
resist the pain, she tried to smile as beads of sweat trickled from her face. 

“Eat.” 

“Well then, itadakimasu.” 

I put my palms together, before reaching for my chopsticks. At the scent of curry, my stomach 
had begun making rumbling noises. It seems that it had been waiting for a long time. Although I 
was mildly disappointed that the ingredients weren’t prepared by Nagato herself, a little fast food 
once in a while wasn’t that bad either. Looking at Nagato silently devouring the mountain before 
her, and Asahina-san politely eating her fill, even the rice tasted good. 

Even though the three of us were completely silent, I somehow felt that it was the perfect 
atmosphere, fitting for the dining table in Nagato’s apartment. If Haruhi were here, she would 
have been so frustrated that she would probably have resorted to talking to herself. 

After that, Asahina-san, who looked like she was about to faint, shoved half of her remaining 
curry rice onto Nagato’s plate. It was only after the three of us had finished eating that Nagato 
served us tea. 

“Thanks for your hospitality. I’ll be going now.” 

“Huh? Kyon-kun, aren’t you going to stay with me?” 



Asahina-san, who was quietly sipping her tea before, suddenly looked at me with shocked eyes. 
Even Nagato turned to look at me, her cup still placed by her mouth. 


“Well, that’s ” 

The desire to say aloud “Well, that’s not such a bad idea” sped through my mind, like a runaway 
spaceship. Images of Asahina-san, dressed in one of Nagato’s nightgowns, drying her hair with a 
towel, as well as Nagato, whose hair was still wet, silently gulping down a cup of milk, appeared 
in my mind before disappearing with a flash. For some reason, Haruhi’s face appeared in my 
mind, as my memory drifted back to the two bed sheets in the other room. This woke me up from 
my fantasies, as I said, 

“Well, that’s too bad. I’ll come over here tomorrow after school.” 

I then faced the owner of the apartment and said, 

“Is that alright, Nagato?” 

Nagato nodded. Seeing this, I faced a trembling Asahina-san and gave her a slight nod. 

“Before I return, just stay here and don’t do anything. I’m sure we’ll figure out a way.” 

Those weren’t words of consolation. If anything happened, all I needed to do was have Nagato 
freeze time again, just like she did the first time when we returned from the 7th of July four years 
ago. If she could freeze time for three years, I’m sure that a week would be a breeze. I also had a 
feeling there was more to this matter. My future self wouldn’t just order her to return to the past 
without a good reason, this I strongly believed. The letter in my pocket further confirmed this 
point. 

Isn’t that so, Asahina-san (big)? 

You have to be related to this incident, somehow. Or am I mistaken? 


After parting with an Asahina-san who was invoking my strongest desires to protect her, I gazed 
up at the stars and made my way home. 

As I walked, all I could think about was how willing Nagato was to limit her own freedom, as 
well as her willingness to talk about it. Hmm, Koizumi, maybe you’re right after all. 

Maybe the day when Nagato Yuki will become a normal, bookish high school student of the 
Literature Club, totally unrelated to the Integrated Data Sentient Entity, isn’t that far away after 
all. When that day comes, even if something did happen, I wouldn’t have to rush to Nagato to 



ask for her help or give her any additional burdens to shoulder. She would become one of our 
friends, who could shoulder our problems together. 

If that time really came, we wouldn’t have Nagato’s powers to rely on. We would probably be in 
an even stickier situation then. 

But so what? 

I never once regretted reverting that world, where Haruhi and Koizumi were non-North High 
students and where Asahina-san didn’t have any memory of me, back to normal. But I also 
slightly missed that world. The day that Asakura made the oden, just as I was about to leave— 

Nagato displayed a light smile. 

I really wanted to see it again. 

I really hoped I could. 


(End of Chapter One) 


Chapter 2 

The next day, I, who had wanted to come to school right away, discovered a letter in my shoe 
locker. 

"I knew it." 

So as not to let anybody else see it, I hastily stuffed it into the pocket of my jacket, hurriedly put 
on my shoes, and ran to the washroom. It was an unwritten rule that all private messages were to 
be read in the washroom. 

I ripped open the envelope and took out the papers inside. There were two of them. 

The first one was obviously written by her. It said, 


""In □ □ town, in the corner of the cross-junction from no. xx to no. A A, walk south from there. 


There is a road without any roadmarks nearby. Place the specified object on the place where that 
road meets the market between 6:12PM and 6:15PM. 

P.S. Asahina Mikuru must go with you." 


That's all I can read from that letter. At the end of that letter, there was a string of symbols I have 
never seen before. It resembled a signature, slightly. But I don't know what those marks mean. 
Actually, it probably isn't a signature. I don't even understand what the letter is calling for, but I 
must think of a solution. 

"What kind of instructions are these?" 

The very-difficult-to-understand letter came with a picture. I held the roughly-sketched map that 
just wasn't good, and found the place marked with an X. But, if the X point hadn't corresponded 
with the letter, I would've thought it was a joke. 

"I don't get it, Asahina-san." 

So this evening, between 6: 12 and 6: 15, I'm supposed to put that thing there? 

What for? 

I re-read it several times, until I memorized what it said. Then I put the letter into the deepest 
part of my bookbag. I cannot let it be found by Haruhi. If it is discovered, I don't have anything I 
could use as an excuse. 

I came out of the bathroom and walked up the stairs, thinking. 

But, I finally have a clue. This must be the reason Asahina-san came from eight days in the 
future. This means there has to be something that must be done in this time. And it has to be 
something that Asahina-san from school cannot do. But why can't she? 

Still struggling with this question, I entered the classroom. The person who greeted me is none 
other than Haruhi, who was quiet to the point of it being suspicious. 

Haruhi raised her head and looked at me, 


How's Shamisen? 



Ah 


That's a way to do it. 

"Not bad." 

"Ah, I see." 

I sat down on the ice-cold chair, and calmly looked over at Haruhi. 

It seems like she hasn't noticed anything. Looking very bored, she sat there with her hand on her 
cheek, her mouth tightly shut. She looked very distracted. She's always been like this recently. I 
don't know what she's thinking either, and I don't have the time to find out. 

"Hey, Haruhi." 

"What?" 

"It's about Shamisen, I have to take him to the vet today. In fact, I have to take him to the 
hospital quite a lot these couple of days. So, I probably won't make it to the clubroom today. 
Sorry..." 

I was certain she was going to glare at me, 

"Go ahead." 

I didn't think she was going to reply so placidly. Was she that worried about Shamisen? 

"What's with that expression?" 

Haruhi looked at the extremely startled me, her gaze softening. 

"Haphazardly loafing around is a definite no-no. But if you have a good reason, I am an 
understanding brigade leader, I won't pester you the whole time." 

Thinking back about whether or not I've ever seen an understanding, non-pestering Haruhi, I 
racked my brain, was it possible this was the first time? As I thought this, 

"I'll go see him in a couple of days. Tell him I told him to get better soon. And your sister too, 
she's so cute, even a cat wouldn't hate her." 

She moved her chin around on her hand, looking like she didn't really care. A non-energetic 
Haruhi is really not like her, but I have to thank her. I still have the Asahina homework problem 
to do. 



Well, what's this mood? The person behind me just continuously stares out the window, I 
suddenly have both an odd feeling of deja vu and a feeling that this was new. What is it with this 
mood? If only Haruhi would be like this even half of the time, that would be good. 

"Morning!" 

The bell hadn't stopped ringing yet, but Okabe-sensei had already arrived full of energy. 

I get it now. 

Haruhi's melancholy wouldn't be here for long. If I think about it, this is the first accurate 
prediction I've seen from the people in the future. According to Asahina-san, she will soon bring 
us along on a treasure hunt, along with a big group of other people. If Haruhi was like now the 
other half of the time, it would be quite good. 

The good and the bad, now I can be relieved. 


Lunchtime, I quickly shoved my lunch down my throat and ran to the clubroom. 

If she's not in her classroom, she's got to be here. Just like I thought, Nagato was sitting at the 
designated spot, reading. 

"Nagato, where's Asahina-san?" 

Since I brought her there, I should at least show some care. 

tl ft 

Nagato's low gaze shifted onto my body and stopped. She was silent for a little while, as if 
considering how to tell me. 

"Why do you ask?" 

"She wasn't any trouble?" 

"No." 

Too lucky. When I thought of Nagato and Asahina-san having a pajama party, my heart jumped. 
"But." 

Nagato calmly said. 


When she's with me, she's always disturbed and restless. 



Her smooth gaze dropped onto the hardcover book again. 

I silently stared at Nagato, wanting to see if any emotion would show itself on her face. Such as a 

feeling of regret, or a look of loneliness But, I didn't see any such expression on the forever 

emotionless Nagato. 

I understand why Asahina-san is restless. Being in an enclosed space with Nagato only is 
something that can cause the majority of people to become disturbed. Besides me, Haruhi and 
Koizumi, everyone feels that way. Mmm, Tsuruya-san's probably fine too. But that's not the 
problem. 

Nagato understands Asahina-san's uneasiness, yet still has an attitude like that, that's quite weird. 
"Asahina-san and I always need your help, I'm allowed to be worried." 

"Same." 

Nagato didn't raise her head. 

"You've helped me too." 

But, the person who has helped me the most is you, Nagato. You have saved my life several 
times. Pretty much every time something happens, you are the most reliable. I'm not saying 
Asahina-san and Koizumi aren't helpful, but if you weren't here, there would be even more 
problems. 

"It started with me." 

That wasn't your fault. If we were saying whose fault it was, you can blame me or the Integrated 
Data Sentient Entity all you want. That wasn't one person's fault. It was because that thing 
happened that I realized what reality is like. And got to see Haruhi with a pony-tail. If we were 
saying how much I've changed, that experience really changed me. 

"I see." 

Nagato, seeming like she was talking to herself, flipped the page. A chill wind blew by, shaking 
the windows. I turned on the electric stove. 

"What's your leader doing? They've fixed things with the extremists, right?" 

"The Integrated Data Sentient Entity never completely agrees. But right now, the main school's 
giving the orders." 

As I thought, even the aliens struggle internally. 


Are you part of the main school? 



Yes. 


And Asakura's a pawn of the extremists. Wait, there's only two? Are there any other "parties"? 

"The ones I know of are the Moderates, the Innovative, the Compromise, and the Thinking 
party." 

Not one is the same. Asakura went and tried to kill me to get Haruhi to do something, and 
created trouble for people around her. Nagato made that Asakura disappear. She's still up in 
space, arguing, I guess. 

My perception of the gods in the sky has changed, 

"I am unable to transmit the ideas of the other schools." 

Nagato slowly raised her head, her gaze leaving the page. 

"But, I am here." 

Said the unshaking voice, there was nobody more reliable than her. 

"That won't flatter anymore."* 

On my way back from the clubroom, I met two very familiar faces. 

"Hey, Kyon-kun!" 

Tsuruya-san was waving wildly. The person beside her asked worriedly, 

"Um, is the cat okay?" 

"I heard he went to the hospital." 

It's Asahina-san, the normal Asahina-san from this time. She doesn't seem to know she'll be 
visiting the past again soon. 

"Has it had medicine?" 

Ah, I see. When Haruhi phoned, Asahina-san must have been beside her, so she knew what we 
would say. 

"It's not serious, but it will take some time to get better." 



I gently shook my messed-up head. Of course the two Asahina-san's don't look any different. If 
I'm not careful, I will paint myself an illusion that the Asahina-san who is supposed to be lazing 
at Nagato's came to school. Even if I fell into an illusion, I wouldn't even notice, unless Asahina- 
san spoke. 

"Shami is suffering from hair loss because of stress, that's so unbelievable." 

Tsuruya said while laughing, 

"But compared with the other problems, this is quite normal, I guess. It must be because he's not 
getting enough exercise. Obviously Kyon-kun's house doesn't have mice! In my yard, wild mice 
occasionally appear! How about you bring your cat over? It's a good way to kill some time." 

"It depends on the situation. If he's not healed, I will do just that." 

In this cold weather, I have a feeling he won't want to go outside. When spring comes, Shamisen 
might become happy. When the cherry blossoms bloom, Haruhi will want us to go appreciate the 
flowers at some garden. 

"Kyon-kun, are you coming for club activities today?" 

Asahina-san asked feebly. I think I should just go ask the other Asahina-san what her plans for 
today was. 

"Coincidentally, I have to take Shamisen to the vet today too. I already told Haruhi." 

"Really?" 

Like she cared about Shamisen from the bottom of her heart, 

"I hope he gets better soon." 

Although my heart becomes a bit uncomfortable, I have to give off a serious mood and nodded. 

"I'll spend the next couple days comforting him. He'll be fine after that. He is male, after all." 

After saying goodbye to the two people who went to buy juice, I returned to classroom 1-5. 

Since it doesn't have a heater, it seems like it's colder than the clubroom I just visited. I can only 
depend on the heat from other people's bodies. The highest heat source, Haruhi, wasn't in, as 
usual. 

In order to join a chatting group, I walked towards Taniguchi and Kunikida. 


Then, school ended. 



I quickly left. There was still a bit of time until the time mentioned in the letter, but I was a little 
worried about leaving Asahina-san all alone. And, to follow Asahina-san's (Big) instructions, I 
still need to prepare something. 

I went home first, to find the hammer and nails and put them into my bookbag. Then I rode my 
old bike and rushed to Nagato's apartment. On this cold winter day, my ears froze until they hurt. 
But when I thought of Asahina-san waiting for me at the apartment, I couldn't care less about the 
pain. Something good was waiting for me there, this was my encouragement. Ever since summer 
vacation, I've wanted to see this and it was finally coming. 

My talk with Nagato in the clubroom also contributed to my change of mood. 

No matter what happens, Nagato will protect Asahina-san and me, so I want to protect Nagato 
and Asahina-san too. Haruhi treats the brigade members as private property, so if a nosy person 
comes along, she will brandish her weapons. At least Koizumi can look after himself. I cannot 
imagine a dead-tired Koizumi. If he does get too tired and has to rest, I can't ignore him. Haruhi 
will make me, anyway. She doesn't care if I live or die. Doesn't matter. I've been part of the SOS 
Brigade for almost a year, I haven't been worn down to a state of no-confidence yet. 

"Yo..to" I let the back wheel rise in the air and stopped the bike, running towards the doorbell of 
the apartment. I pressed Nagato's buzzer. 

"...Yes?" 

I was relieved to hear Asahina-san's voice. 

"It's me. Nothing happened, right? Good." 

"Eh. ..Yes, nothing... Ah, I'll be there right now. Wait a minute." 

I actually wanted to go into Nagato's room and wait, but Asahina-san hung up the phone 
immediately. 

So I waited there for several minutes, after about five minutes, Asahina-san showed up, carrying 
slippers in one hand. 

Asahina-san looked comforted after seeing me, but suddenly became very serious. Frozen and 
shivering, she ran my way. 

"I borrowed the shoes from Nagato-san. And this is the extra key." 

Asahina-san pointed to the key in her hand. 


This, could you please return it to Nagato-san for me? 



Hm? What's the matter? Since you're temporarily living here anyway, can't you just borrow both 
the slippers and the key? 

"About that..." 

Asahina-san lowered her head and looked up at me. 

"I think it would be better if I didn't live at Nagato's house." 

Why? 

"How should I explain this..." 

She used her hand to push down her light, brown hair that was dancing with the winter wind. 
"Nagato-san, when I'm with her alone in a room, she's generally very anxious." 

I can't help but stare at Asahina-san. 

I have also heard the exact same thing from Nagato. No, I can't imagine for a second how 
Asahina-san would know what an anxious Nagato would look like. 

"Umm." 

Like an adult explaining something to a child, Asahina-san said, 

"I've always felt that way. At night, when I'm sleeping... Ah, the rooms are separate, I sleep in 
the extra room, but Nagato's always standing by my pillow. Lifelessly staring at me..." 

It can't be, that's like a spirit appeared. 

"...This is just what I think, but, it's like Nagato hasn't figured me out yet." 

Asahina-san took a long breath, looking somewhere near my chest. 

"In the clubroom, when everyone's around, you can't sense it. But when you're alone with 
Nagato-san, you can see it vibrating in the air. It was like that last month too. When we came 
back from the past, and I woke up and found Kyon-kun gone, I felt she was silently staring at me 
then too." 

What do you mean? No matter how I think of it, Nagato would never hurt Asahina-san. 

"Mhm, I know. Nagato-san doesn't think like that. This is just my own observations... But, I 
know this for sure, Nagato-san looks as if she is concerned about me." 

What a broken explanation. I don't get it. 



Asahina-san's facial expression made it seem as though I just scolded her. In a lonely voice, she 
said, 

"Nagato-san, she appears as though she wants to be like me." 

"?" Goes me. 

"Like, going on random missions aimlessly with Kyon-kun and the like. I'm always doing that, 
right? Nagato-san's always been watching us. It was like that on that Tanabata, and during the 
endless summer too..." 

In the past year, many marks have been left by the SOS Brigade. Of us, the most capable is 
Nagato. 

"I think the reason Nagato-san changed the past was this mentality too. Nagato-san always helps 
others, unlike me, who always needs others to help me." 

Asahina-san blew a breath into the palm of her hand, then, with a "hmn!”, nodded her head. 

"After thinking about it, I guess it makes more sense now. The (vibes) I felt from Nagato-san. 
Maybe Nagato-san just wants to become like me." 

Again, my mind started to fantasize. One in which I went toward the clubroom as usual, but there 
was a (maid-clothing-clad) Nagato waiting for me, happily steeping tea. One even therapy 
couldn't fix. Then she would, smiling, carefully place the teacup in front of me, and then, holding 
the serving plate, ask me how it tastes 

If Nagato was like that, I wouldn't complain. But then where would the Nagato that sits at the 
side of the table reading go? 

"I suspect even Nagato-san doesn't know about it. So, it'd be better if I just left. Otherwise, she'll 
become unstable. 

Asahina-san has a sincere look. She's not wanting to stay away from Nagato's house, but is 
actually thinking of Nagato. We already know what the abnormal Nagato is like, and we both 
know what causes it. In the end, she set a limit on herself. Reject synchronization. She wanted to 
be able to depend on herself to resolve the problems. Is Nagato's ideal Asahina-san? Someone 
different from her, one who, when glitches occur, goes about doing her thing without actually 
knowing about what has happened. A time traveler. 

That's extremely paradoxical. Asahina-san is going crazy over knowing nothing, while Nagato is 
depressed due to knowing too much. 

I lifted my head and looked at Nagato's room. 


Yeah... 



Perhaps Asahina-san's thesis is in fact true. No matter how I think of it, the people with sharper 
wits are generally female. Haruhi and Tsuruya-san might just have a little too much. 

Nagato has Nagato's advantages. That's more than enough, but I didn't realize that this was a 
difficult situation. Even if I went and asked her, she would just pretend to know nothing. 

It's also possible Asahina-san's just thinking too much of this. Maybe Nagato doesn't really care. 
Maybe she just doesn't have a book to read occasionally, and just stares at Asahina-san without 
any definite purpose. But since Asahina-san is this worried, I can't just say that she's wrong. 

"Got it. I'll go explain to Nagato. We'll figure out where you're going to sleep on the way back." 

The most that could happen would be her sleeping at my house. It's not like we can't find another 
place for her to stay. 

"Oh, yeah, I have something to show you. I found another letter in my shoe-locker." 

As I took out the letter, Asahina-san had a look that resembled one I would see on a person 
looking at the exam booklet before the exam. 

"Ah, this..." 

She pointed to the last part on the instruction letter. 

"That's the Mission Code. The most important thing." 

I don't know if that line's a mark or a signature. Is it possible that's some future language? 

"No, it's not a language... That's a code. It's something we specifically use to indicate someone is 
important. That means, no matter what happens, we must complete the task set." 

"That's what it means?" 

After remembering the content of the letter, I said, 

"There's got to be some hidden meaning to this." 

"That's..." 

Asahina-san slightly tilted her head, and with a face of puzzlement, replied, 

"I don't get this, totally..." 

"If we disregarded this and didn't do anything, what would happen?" 


We can't ignore it. 



Studying the letter, Asahina-san said, 


"After seeing this code, I must do what it says." 

Then, she turned her edgy gaze onto me. 

"Also, Kyon-kun, you will help me, right?" 

We have arrived at the place the letter indicates. The method of transportation is the bike, I don't 
need to say I pedaled, carrying Asahina-san, who was sitting on the back. Anyway, even though 
the location is in the city, we can get there by biking. 

We also took a little walk to kill some time. According to my watch, it's just after 6: 10. If we 
follow the instructions, we need to have this thing put in place sometime between 6: 12 and 6: 15. 

The fact that the sun set a long time ago makes me feel a little lonely. The road is really far from 
any residential houses, so pedestrians are sparse and almost no one around. There's even a little 
shortcut off to the side that no one's bothered to fix up. The path doesn't look like a shortcut 
though, since if it is actually a shortcut to somewhere, normal people won't just randomly walk 
that way. On the hand printed map, the 'X' was marked showing a place a couple of meters away 
from the intersection of this road and the asphalt city road. 

It's a good thing no pedestrians were around. What we were about to do is something only 
delinquents would do. When all is said and done, this was a practical joke. 

We've only prepared three things. A hammer, some nails, and an empty juice box. You can 
probably guess what we're up to now, right? 

"Let's start," I said. 

"No problem." Asahina-san nodded her head. 

I, who had been hiding behind a pole, dashed toward the destination, and started to nail nails into 
the ground. The ground was hard, and you need a lot of energy just to put half of a nail into the 
ground. Especially since I can't make a loud sound, in case people nearby hear it. 

I worked fast, and finished before the thirty seconds were up. 

I put the nails into the empty box, and then returned to the pole where Asahina-san was waiting 
for me. And then we went to hide in a dark place a bit farther off. 

What will happen next? What will the box do? Let us observe some more. 

We didn't wait long. The time is now 6: 14 in the afternoon. 



It looks like a male slowly coming down the street from the opposite direction of where we were 
hiding. He was wearing a Windbreaker and carrying a shoulder bag. From what I can see, he 
hasn't noticed us yet. He was walking with his face downward, and he looked very drained. He 
suddenly stopped. He was looking in the exact direction the empty juice box was pointing. 

"Ha..." 

I heard a sigh. As I was thinking he was a good person who felt disturbed by some litterbugs, he 
walked towards the empty juice box without hesitation, decisively lifted up his foot and swung it 
down in a kick. 

Needless to say, the juice box didn't miraculously fly into a goal, not only that, but it didn't even 
move 

"Gah — !? Wahhh." 

"What the hell, that hurts-!" 

It hurt so much he was rolling on the ground. He was crying so much it was like he was dying. 

" What the..?! Who did this! Putting this... it, it hurts-!" 

Asahina-san and I stared at each other in dismay. 

This was the point of putting it there? 

"Who knows...?" 

We had a conversation using our gazes. We nodded at exactly the same time, and came out of 
our hiding spot. We walked down the path, pretending we were passing this place as though we 
occasionally do. 

"Are you okay?" 

Asahina-san said to the person laying on the ground grasping his toenail. I calmly stood by 
Asahina-san, and looked down at the complaining man. 

"Ah?" 

I do not recognize the distorted face that belongs to a skinny man in his mid-20s. Under his 
windproof jacket, he was wearing western clothing, even sporting a tie. He looks exactly like 
every other average, middle-class working man. 

Trying to look nice, I said: 


Want some help? 



Uh... Please. Thanks. 


He grabbed my hand and managed to stand. Wrinkling his brow, he lifted his foot. 

"Damn. Who did that? This kind of childish prank." 

"It was over the top." 

I knelt down and picked up the juice box. There was an indent on one side. The nail that was 
secured down was also crooked due to the kick. From the looks of it, he's an accomplished 
kicker. 

"How dangerous." 

I said seriously, pulling out the nail. Thanks to his powerful kick, it came out without any trouble 
at all. To destroy the evidence, I slipped the nail into my pocket. 

He lifted his leg and lowered it several times. Each time, it was accompanied by a wrinkling of 
the brow and a phrase. 

"This is quite troublesome. I don't think anything's broken... Maybe I twisted my ankle?" 

"Um," said Asahina-san, "It'd be better if we went to a hospital..." 

"I think so too." 

He hopped on one foot towards the busy street, almost staggering. 

"Lend me your shoulder, please." 

So as not to let him fall, I hurried to his side, and asked, 

"Should we call an ambulance?" 

"Ah, that's not required. I've called one before. To make such a big fuss over such a little thing 
isn't too good. Sorry, but can you take me like this to the main road over there?" 

"Eh, of course I can." 

No matter what you say, it's my fault. I honestly want to apologize to him. 

I took advantage of the streetlights to examine the man who was grabbing my shoulder and 
walking slowly more carefully. He was actually a uniquely handsome man. 


There was a problem at work. 



On the way to the road, he started to explain about himself. 

"I shouldn't have kicked that box just because I was lamenting. I guess I deserved it." 

"I disagree. I believe the bad people are the ones who put that mischievous thing there in the first 
place." 

"I guess you're right, what kind of a prank is that? They have to do it now, of all times." 

He looked at me and then at the taciturn Asahina-san following a few step behind, and he started 
to laugh. 

"That girl, is she your girlfriend?" 

I didn't have anything to say, so I probably just stared for a second or two. 

"Eh, well... Something like that..." 

At times like this, I have to say that, even if it is lying. 

"Is that so." 

He believed what I told him without any doubts, and then reverted to his former state of looking 
like it hurt a lot. 

We reached the main road, and managed to call a lucky taxi by waving. This wasn't over until we 
got the anxiously sweating man into the back seat of the taxi on this cold day. 

"Thank you very much. Sorry for taking up some of your time." 

No, no, it was technically all my fault. Just so you know, this Asahina-san is innocent. If you 
ever somehow find out who did it and want revenge, please take it up with the older her.. .as I 
thought this deep in my heart, the taxi drove away, leaving us two. I asked Asahina-san, 

"Is that all we need to do?" 

"Yeah..." 

Unconfidently, Asahina-san let out a big sigh and hugged her body. 

It was already half past six. 


There is a serious restriction on us now. 



That is, we cannot let the other Asahina-san and Haruhi see me together with this Asahina-san. If 
we are seen by Haruhi, we could argue our way out. But if Asahina-san (the true one) saw her 
doppleganger, I am sure her brain isn't so dumb as to be able to believe there is someone that 
looks exactly like her walking around. Worst case scenario, I bump into all of the just-dismissed 
SOS Brigade on their way home. That would be ungodly. 

Then again, if I trust what Asahina-san (the one from eight days in the future) said, she didn't see 
herself these past couple days, so there shouldn't be a problem there. 

But there is a problem. If my hard work here results in the future being easier on me, I should 
work extremely hard here. I can't be too optimistic... Is that the problem? 

I have no idea. Why are things always so inconvenient for me? Anyway, if the traveler this time 
wasn't Asahina-san (Eight Days Later) but Asahina-san (Big), everything would be solved in no 
time. 

I stared at the slight senpai by my side. 

Wearing a North High uniform, she scrunched her body together, looking very cold. In this chilly 
February wind, it must be hard to stand not having a jacket. If I was wearing that uniform, I 
would probably freeze to death too. 

"Should we get going?" 

I waved a hand toward the old bike and asked. Asahina-san nodded her head. 

"... But, where are we going? Kyon-kun's house?" 

Even though I wish we could do that, the fewer people who we have to tell not to tell anybody 
else, the better. As her brother, I can honestly say that my sister has the loosest lips ever. In fact, 
they're probably looser than a grandmother's pursestring in front of her grandson. 

"To someone besides Nagato who can take you in temporarily. Maybe that person'll let you stay 
without asking any questions." 

I got on the bicycle and urged the startled Asahina-san on. I carried the light, second-year student 
sitting sideways on the back and started in the direction of our destination. 


Where I stopped the bike was a place every person in the SOS Brigade would recognize. 
Of course, that means Asahina-san knows it too. 


Here... Um, this can't be it. 



Asahina-san, having jumped down off the bike, was staring at the front gate to that person's 
property. 

I set up the bike stand and locked it. 

"This person will help Asahina-san no matter what happens. There will never be a time when this 
person won't help out." 

"B-but, we shouldn't reveal the secret " 

"Leave it to me." 

The huge golden gate had a modern intercom plastered on the side. Before I press the button, we 
need to smooth a few things out. 

"Asahina-san, ear." 

"Okay." 

Obediently, she tilted her head and brushed off some of her hair, exposing her pretty ear. 

Without meaning to, I thought of Haruhi and her ear-biting scene. I want to do that as well, but I 
can tell it's a bad time. 

"Ye-yeah. I want to do that too " 

Asahina-san blinked and said in a whispery voice, 

"Eh. But, I'm not a good actress." 

She protests, looking like she's about to cry. 

"That's so hard " 

Yes. She wants to play the part exactly. 

To tell you the truth, I feel that there is no need for acting. Asahina-san just has to act like the 
normal Asahina-san. I'm sure no one will notice. 

"Anyway, that's the plan. It'll be fine." 

I smiled at her optimistically and pushed down the button. 



Asahina-san and I silently waited for a response. The chance of the actual person replying is 
actually very small, so in my mind, I practiced the exchange. After I repeated it three times, a 
minute later, still no one had answered. They should be at home. This started turning into an 
unlucky day, when, 

"Oy, wait a minute!" 

A large, energetic yell came out of the wall, followed by a big bang. This was succeeded by 
many creaking sounds as the wooden gate was opening. 

"Ya! What's happened this late at night? Mikuru and Kyon-kun. Hm? It is really you two. Oh, 
boy, that's not easy. Lucky you." 

Tsuruya-san said with a huge smile on her face. 


Tsuruya-san's outfit is a bit different from the normal one I see at school. 

She was wearing a casual civilian kimono with a short shirt on top, her long, flowing hair 
combed back. She fits right into a traditional Japanese garden. 

Tsuruya-san let us into the Tsuruya property, then put the squared timber bar back on the inside 
of the closed gate. 

"Hm, but this is surprising. Kyon-kun and Mikuru out for a walk? Haruhi didn't come?" 

"There are many hidden stories in this Wait, Tsuruya-san, how did you know it was us?" 

Since no one had answered the intercom. 

"En, there's a security camera installed out there. I can tell right away who the visitors are! After 
seeing you two, I thought it would be best to come out myself. Is something wrong?" 

Tsuruya-san's geta made a clip-clop sound as we walked to the main door that opened up to 
reveal a path resembling a shrine courtyard. She walked while smiling and said, 

"Hm? Mikuru? What's wrong, you seem so lethargic today." 

"Actually, about this." 

I cleared my throat and prepared to speak the lines of the script I had come up with. 


"I have a request to ask of you. Can you let this Asahina-san stay at Tsuruya-san's house for a 
while?" 



"Huh? I guess I could." 

Fufu-n, Tsuruya-san let a laugh out through her nose, then proceeded to stare at Asahina-san's 
face. 

"Hmm, it is Mikuru, right?" 

Asahina-san jumped. Tsuruya-san's bright eyes narrowed. Have we been found out? 

"Meh, whatever. There's a reason, right? A reason why Mikuru can't go back to her own house." 
The conversation was progressing really fast. It was a great help. 

"How long does she need to stay for?" 

"Eight days max," I said. 

Not counting today, eight days later Asahina-san will revert to her old self. 

"Can she?" 

"En, it's not a problem. Ah, yes. You can live in the separate quarters. Everything that was in the 
quarters at that villa is there as well. No one is currently residing there, but sometimes I go there 
to ponder a question alone. It's a good, quiet place." 

I gazed around at the Tsuruya residence surrounded by trees. It was wide enough to feel like 
there was nothing it didn't have. I even heard that there was an antique warehouse around here 
too. 

I am surprised by, admire, and envy them. Tsuruya-san's mouth became a beautiful semi-circle 
while she stared at Asahina-san. 

"But, Mikuru, what's wrong? So weird You don't need to be so alarmed." 

Tsuruya-san poked Asahina-san's lowered chin. 

"She doesn't seem like Mikuru at all." 


Before the motionless Asahina-san could say something and incriminate herself, I interrupted. 




& 

"That person is Asahina-san's twin, Asahina Michiru." 

"That person is Asahina-san's twin, Asahina Michiru." 

"Twin? Sister? Michiru-chan?" 

"Uh yeah. They became separated after birth " 

"Eh ?" 

"Um, every family has a problem. Asahina-san I mean Mikuru doesn't know she has a sister." 

"Ha . But why is Michiru-chan wearing a North High uniform?" 

"Ah." 

Shit. I didn't think of that. 

"How should I explain this Ah, that's right. This Michiru-chan, she wanted to see her sister, 

so she got a North High uniform from somewhere. But, she didn't succeed and started to leave. 
Then I bumped into her and listened to her story. U m, then " 

She patted my shoulder. 

"That's good." 


Seeming extremely happy, Tsuruya-san said, 



"If you were to start explaining, both the explainer and the listener would become tired. If she is 
Mikuru-chan's sister, they would definitely look alike. Do you only need to let her live here?" 

"And you can't tell Asahina-san about her." 

"Obviously. I got it." 

"Um " 

As if not wanting to be ignored, Asahina-san piped up. 

"Can I really stay? Tsu, Tsuruya-san." 

"En. Of course you can. Come, Michiru, this way, this way, I'll take you to the place." 

Tsuruya-san pulled on Asahina-san's hand, yanking her towards the Japanese garden. Before 
that, she shot me a gaze, and I couldn't help but feel like I was shot. 


The separate quarters look almost exactly the same as those at the villa up in that mountain. 
According to Tsuruya-san, those were built using this for reference. Which means this is the 
original, kind of like a relative with the same last name. It's an extremely comfortable place. 

Sitting on the Tatami Mats in this simple hut, Asahina-san resembled a marionette. 

It's a good thing Tsuruya-san turned on the heater and the room was heating up, because I 
wouldn't have wanted to move otherwise. 

Tsuruya-san explained the closets and drawers in the room and where the bedding was, and then 
with a "I'll bring some hot tea," she started to walk towards the main house. 

"It's finally calm now," I said. 

"Yes, she's a very big help. We have to thank Tsuruya-san someday." 

Here the Asahina-san changed into Asahina Michiru approved, 

"Michiru. That's not a bad name." 

She finally smiled. 

On the Tatami mats, I stretched out my legs and looked at the antique lights. And then thought 
about Asahina-san's name. 


Until Tsuruya-san returned laden down with teacups, a kettle, and a basket of clothes. 



Tsuruya-san invited me to stay for dinner, but eating out two days in a row was sure to make my 
mother angry, so I expressed my disappointment and said I would have to leave. Perhaps it was 
because I had found a place for Asahina-san to stay, but I seemed to have lost my energy. If it 
kept going like this, I would end up sleeping out too. 

I left Asahina-san in the solitary quarters and walked out. Tsuruya-san followed, pretending to be 
seeing me off. This was what she said. 

"Michiru, she resembles Mikuru but she isn't Mikuru. In other words, there's a feeling that she is 
Mikuru, but also a feeling she isn't, you know? Oh, yeah. She's different from the one I met at 
school, right?" 

I already said they were twins, Senpai. 

"Ahaha-. Yes. That's how it is." 

Walking about a step and a half ahead of me, Tsuruya-san led me towards the main gate. 

Looking at that swaying bun of hair, I knew I had to ask. 

"Tsuruya-san." 

"What's the matter?" 

"What do you actually know? Asahina-san and Nagato The people of the SOS Brigade 

aren't normal, you said before." 

"Mhm." 

The long hair jumped. She turned her head. Her smiling face was bright even for a star. 

"Kyon-kun, I actually don't understand very much, but I'm sure they're different. At least, 
different from me and you. They're not the 'normal' friends." 

Knowing that is good enough. Tsuruya-san will not ask for unnecessary details, and she 
definitely won't go looking for what Asahina-san truly is. 

"Why?" 

Tsuruya-san retracted her hands into the sleeves of her shirt and started to laugh. 


"Me, I will become very happy just watching someone being very happy. I like people who eat 
meals they cooked themselves with very big mouthfuls. I don't care if it's someone I've never 



seen before. Un, so when I see Haru-nyan I feel very lucky. Even though I don't know why she's 
like that, but she's always especially happy!" 


Do you want to join them or something? Aren't you lonely just watching from the side? 

"U n, me, I feel that many movies I see have a deep meaning, but I don't ever want to film 

my own movie. Seeing's enough for me. Whether it's the World Baseball Championship or the 
Pro Bowlers Association World Championship, I always warmly cheer them on. But I never 
think 'Uwah~ I want to play that too!' and join them. Just watching those people do their best 
makes me have a good mood already. Anyway, that doesn't interest me! So, I should just do what 
I can do!" 

No matter what I say, this is the exact opposite of Haruhi. If there's something interesting 
happening, she'll join in every time, since she has to try it herself no matter what. 

Tsuruya-san continuously rotated her eyes. 

"Like that, when I see Mikuru and Haru-nyan and Yuki-ni and Koizumi-kun and Kyon-kun, I 
think it's lots of fun. I like the appearance that everybody's busy! Apart from that, I also like the 
me standing off to the side watching you ! " 

An impossible to replicate smile and sound. She was speaking her heart. Just standing by her 
side, I felt cheered up. 

"So I like where I am right now. I think Haru-nyan knows as well, so she hasn't tried to drag me 
in. There's five people, it must be crowded already. 

Tsuruya-san jumped again. She turned back to face the front door, towing her long hair behind. 

"It's impossible to find out every secret for every thing on this planet. I'm busy enough with my 
own devices as it is." 

She turned her head around and said something I'll never forget. 

"Kyon-kun, you have to work hard. The future of mankind rests on you!" 

Said Tsuruya-san. The corners of her mouth slightly moved, and she stared at me for a while. 
Then, as if she couldn't hold it in any longer, she started to laugh. From that benevolent, child- 
like laughter, I got the feeling this cheerful Senpai's words were just a joke. 

Tsuruya-san continued to laugh until her belly hurt. Then, she wiped the side of her eyes and 
said, 

"Well, Mikuru will always follow you! But, don't be mischievous. That's the one thing that's not 
allowed. If you wish to be mischievous, do it to Haru-nyan. Just my intuition. Mhm, I'm sure 
she'll always forgive you ! " 



This should be the only serious part of her speech. Don't know why, but I just had a thought like 
that. I didn't actually plan on doing anything. 


After saying good night to Tsuruya-san, I rode away on my bike. But after a while, I had to stop. 
’’Good evening." 

Because a person walked out of the shadows. And blocked my path. 

"You worked hard. I don't quite approve of involving Tsuruya-san. But for safety, there's not a 
place safer than that." 

It's been two days since I saw this impeccable, smiling face. It was Koizumi Itsuki's honest, 
handsome, smiling face. 

"Yo, what a random encounter." 

"You could say that. I guess. Random encounters have happened since you and I first met. No, 
you met Suzumiya-san first." 

As if greeting me, Koizumi raised his hand. Were you hiding there waiting for me in the dead of 
the night? If anyone mistook you for a mental pervert, they would report you to the police. It's 
not like you can deny it. 

Fu~, Koizumi softly laughed. 

"You look like you're doing something important. Not involving me again?" 

I sighed. The air I exhaled turned white. 

"This is my and Asahina-san's problem. It has nothing to do with you. Can't you just go play with 
your <Shinjins> and be happy with that?" 

"Those haven't appeared in a long time. I like to take walks like this from time to time too." 

You're not very creative, taking a walk in the middle of a cold night without a dog. Even though 
I said this, you appearing here isn't a random thing, is it. 

"If it was by chance, that's too much of a coincidence, isn't it?" 

"What do you want?" 

After I asked this, the topic changed completely. 



"Iya, if I said it now, you would probably understand everything. What do you know as of right 
now?" 

"Does it have anything to do with the two Asahina-sans?" 

After Koizumi pointed out the important points, 

"And then, how did you explain it to Tsuruya-san? Said they were twins? Is it possible she 
believed it?" 

"I think both worked." 

"I suppose. It's because the other person's Tsuruya-san." 

He said it very naturally. Who the devil is Tsuruya-san? That cheery Sempai, it seems she knows 
everything, yet keeps a subtle distance between us and her. 

"My superiors told me not to harm Tsuruya-san." 

Koizumi then seriously said, 

"She actually has nothing to do with this. Originally she wasn't supposed to come into contact 
with us, but something went wrong somewhere, and we met each other. You could say 'good job, 
Suzumiya-san.'" 

Where did it start to go wrong? When Tsuruya-san ended up in Asahina-san's class? Or when we 
got her to play baseball with us? 

"We do not inhibit her, and vice versa, she does not interfere with what we do. That's the deal the 
Tsuruya family and the 'Organization' have going right now." 

Don't just calmly say something so surprising. 

Kuku, Koizumi went, 

"Just so you know, the Tsuruya family is one of the 'Organization's many supporters. But they 
don't care at all what we do, and they don't mind us whatever we do. It's easy to be relaxed like 
this. But Tsuruya-san is probably the successor to the Tsuruya house." 

Tsuruya-san, you I think we even kindly said she wasn't of importance sometime back then 

too. I want to know from the bottom of my heart. Who is she? 

"An ordinary senior high student. She goes to the same public school as us, and she is a second- 
year living in a big house. Perhaps she's battling evil in a place we don't know about, and maybe 
she solved something extremely important, but this has nothing to do with us." 



I still remember what Tsuruya-san said to me clear as day. She said she was very happy not 
being closely connected to us. We should be like that too, and treat her as if nothing's different. 
Who she is, what she's here to do, that's not important at all. Just like how Haruhi's just Haruhi, 
Tsuruya-san's just Tsuruya-san. She's just the energetic, vigorous friend of Asahina-san. An 
honorary member of the SOS Brigade. This should be the best explanation. 

But for her and Asahina-san to be friends, how much of it wasn't chance? Is there even a past the 
time travellers don't know? Haruhi obviously doesn't understand 

As I thought this, I suddenly remembered. 

"Koizumi, last time, you said Asahina-san would be fine no matter what. What's with that?" 
"Because the future can be changed too." 

He looked like he was expecting me to ask. 

"Maybe you think that time travellers can meddle freely in affairs in the past, and firmly believe 
that the future is superior to the past. In reality, the future is a very fuzzy subject." 

So if you understand the foundation of the past and reverse time, you could change everything at 
will. In fact, that's what I did. I fixed that alternate world with the strange Nagato. 

Koizumi slightly smiled. 

"Changing and fixing things from the past works. If you know the future first, then you should 
theoretically change the future from that time." 

"How are you going to know the future. That's impossible." 

"Do you really think that?" 

Koizumi's smile looks a little evil. He probably wants it like that. This guy has the weirdest 
hobbies. 

"I am an esper, even though my abilities change depending on where I am. But, can you be sure 
there are no others? Why are you so quick to say that no one can possibly have powers that aren't 
only used to keep the <Shinjins> in check, powers that are more easily seen? For example, what 
if there was a fortune-teller, and that person wasn't part of our 'Organization'?" 

He reverted to his usual smile. 

"I don't remember telling you that those kind of people don't exist." 


You!... 



"Of course, I never said they did, either." 

So do they exist or not? And don't tell me that both are possible. 

"To tell you the truth, I don't know. Didn't I tell you, I'm one of the lowest ranked people. I can't 
know everything. Like Asahina-san." 

This I accept. There's not a more unfortunate agent than Asahina-san. 

“There’s a reason for not letting her know, of course. If a time traveler were to know their 
purpose in the past, they would inevitably analyze that purpose, and carefully plan their next 
actions, fearing to jeopardize their own future. This is why although Asahina-san is a time 
traveler, she doesn’t know anything about her true purpose here. She has been intentionally kept 
in the dark. This the future’s countermeasure to ensure that the past, be it their own past selves or 
others native to that time plane like you and me, does not analyze their reasons and act 
unaccordingly, putting the future at risk. So all we know about Asahina-san is that she is required 
to remain in this time plane; if we were to successfully discover why she is here, it would be a 
very grave situation for the future. Therefore, the future takes great care to ensure that the only 
thing we can conclude is that she’s a beautiful representative from the future. I do not feel 
threatened by her now; but in a crisis, I believe that she will act based on her orders from the 
future.” 

Koizumi smiled and shrugged his shoulders. 

"Maybe that's the point of her being here, to make us think that's the point. So the 'Organization' 
doesn't do anything hastily. If we do act, and it turns out to be what the future wants, we will be 
extremely annoyed. Letting her be the future's puppet just isn't good." 

Wait, so does that mean you and Asahina-san are opponents? 

"Can't really say we're hostile. In a nutshell, it's just a steady condition." 

My body froze up. Literally. 

"I'll make a comparison. Here are two countries, A and B. Both are a thorn in the other's side, but 
they've never directly fought before. Now, before A appears nemesis C and before B appears 
nemesis D. For A, they cannot co-exist with C, and are bitter enemies. Same with B versus D. 
Finally, C and D create an alliance and work together. If there were only one enemy they could 
take them, but their army would have no influence against two countries. So, the proverb 'the 
enemy of my enemy is my friend' proves to be true. A and B are like rivals that find themselves 
back-to-back and reluctantly fight together against a common enemy. That's kind of like this, is it 
not?" 

Koizumi looked at me suspiciously. 


Are you listening? 



Ah, sorry. 


I sat on my bike seat. 

"I lost track when you got to something about D. I remember a bit about what you said at first, 
but nothing after D, since there's just way too much." 

"You should've heard me. Whether or not you processed it is up to your brain and how you want 
to think about it." 

Don't reply so seriously. I'm all confused now. I recommend trying stand-up or something 
someday. If you don't have a sense of humour, no girls will like you even if you do look 
handsome. 

Koizumi smiled again. I wonder how many different faces you have. 

"I will change my expression because of the time, the circumstance and the other person. But, if 
the other person is you, all talks turn into this type of talk." 

You're a headache-inducing person. 

"I think so too, but I'll stay like this for the time being." 

For some reason, Koizumi looked off into the distance. 

"Someday, I'll be able to be your friend normally, and we will look back on past events as a joke 
together. I hope such a day comes. A day where missions and duties are irrelevant, but normal 
things apply." 

You would be satisfied with that? 

"Well, I'll see you later in the clubroom." 

As if saluting, he raised his hand and turned around. Then he disappeared into the curtain of 
night like he was walking around aimlessly after a stroll. 


After I returned home, I hurriedly ate a bit and slipped into my room. 

Next I phoned Nagato. I have to tell her that Asahina-san is now staying in Tsuruya-san's house. 
Even Koizumi noticed it, it's possible Nagato already knows. 

After three rings, Nagato picked up the phone. She knew who it was, the proof being that she 
didn't say anything. 



Nagato, it's me. I'll cut the chit-chat. This is about Asahina-san. 


While telling her the main points about what happened with Asahina-san, Nagato listened to me 
explain with a ' '. 

"Understood." 

She lightly said. It sounded like she wasn't reluctant at all. Then she added. 

"I feel very well." 

"I see. In that case, I'm relieved." 

"Why?" 

You even asked why. I was even worrying about Nagato feeling regret. It was a one-sided 
request to begin with, and now Asahina-san just leaves on a whim. That's kind of selfish. 

"Unnecessary worrying," 

Nagato tranquilly said, 

"I understand what she means." 

A pause. 

"I've never thought about wanting to be like her. But, her thinking that is logical." 

What can I say? 

"If I were her, I might think like that too." 

Um, that means, Asahina-san worrying about Nagato, Nagato can see that from Asahina-san's 
point of view? 

Silence for a while, then, 

"I think so." 

The volume was very soft. I instantly regretted not turning on the voice recording function, so as 
to record this happy sound. 



After that, a couple more lines and I hung up the phone. There's nothing to worry about. It seems 
the alien and the time traveler have come to a mutual understanding. Maybe this kind of mutual 
understanding even surpassed their imagination. 

For some unknown reason, I let my gaze slide sideways. Shamisen is lying on the bed, sleeping. 
Like a human, his head is on my pillow, and he sleeps very nicely. In case Haruhi actually comes 
to my house, I think of cutting away some of his fur, but then I remember something. 

"How long does lying about Shamisen have to go on?" 

I forgot to ask. Asahina-san should know when I was absent and when I was there. I want to 
know when I return. After I know that, I have a basic knowledge of how the week is going to go. 
But Asahina-san from a week later didn't bring anything, not even her cell phone. If I'm going to 
phone, it would have to be to Tsuruya-san. But maybe it's because of what Koizumi said, I don't 
really want to contact her right now. I don't even know what's true of what he said. That bastard, 
he can even rationally explain things on the spur of the moment. Maybe he just looked at my 
face and thought, 'well, that works too.' 

I picked up the remote control and adjusted the temperature, then rested my head on my bed. 

Tomorrow, I'll go check my shoe locker and then figure out what to do. 

I looked at the three-colored cat, whose mouth was opening and closing slightly, and slowly 
closed my eyes. Without meaning to, I fell asleep. And then I was awakened by a sister who had 
just finished taking a bath. 


Chapter 3 

The next day. 

“Please scale the mountain. There you will encounter an oddly shaped rock. Move this rock 
approximately three meters to the west and leave it there. Asahina Mikuru knows what to do. 
Since it will be pitch dark after nightfall, it is advised that you go there before the sun sets.” 

After tearing open yet another letter in the washroom, I was once again greeted with more 
strange instructions. Similar to yesterday’s letter, there were strange scribbles beneath it, and the 
word “rock” was circled, as if emphasizing that specific word. 

So I decided that today I would head straight back home. 


“Even though it’s fine with me. . .” 


But what in the world was this? Rocks atop mountains? What mountain? What rock? The only 
mountain I had heard from Asahina-san recently was. . . 

I started to feel my head spin. 

“That damned treasure hunt.” 

According to Asahina-san, we would spend our holidays treasure-hunting. And that would be the 
day after tomorrow. Tsuruya-san was said to have a mountain behind her house, and if that was 
so, she would still be involved. That girl bought the story of the two Asahina-sans without 
question, as she continued to smile before me and Haruhi. That’s what worries me the most. 

Even if it was a sticky matter for Koizumi, I could still ignore it for the time being, and that’s 
exactly what I did. 

“So that is to say that Haruhi should be back to her usual self some time soon.” 

I walked to the classroom as I predicted her reaction. The map was currently in Tsuruya-san’s 
possession, and two days later we would be on a treasure hunt. That means that Haruhi would 
probably obtain this map within two days time, most likely tomorrow. I hadn’t detected any 
sense of excitement in Tsuruya-san last evening. Does this mean that she hadn’t found the map 
yet? Or was she just keeping quiet? Knowing Tsuruya-san, she would be one to give me the map 
for safe keeping, and tell me to pass it to Haruhi, if she had already found it. 

“Hey, Haruhi.” 

Just as I expected, she was already in the classroom, still as quiet as Nagato, like a normal high 
school student full of melancholy. 

“How’s Shamisen?” 

She didn’t even bother to look at me as she continued to stare outside the window. She didn’t 
look too happy. 

“Oh, he’s still okay.” 

“Is that so. Well, that’s good I guess.” 

Her breath condensed on the window and made it cloudy. Using her index finger, she began 
tracing patterns on the window. 

That’s weird. Being able to have a normal conversation like this with Haruhi is even more rare 
than seeing Nagato not reading in the club room. This makes me feel anxious, as if some 
unknown peril might be slowly creeping up on me. It couldn’t be the doing of some unknown 
aliens, could it? 


“What’s the matter? You look down.” 



Haruhi snorted in reply. 


“What are you talking about; I’ve always been like this. It’s just that I’ve been doing a lot of 
thinking lately. Tomor. . .” 

Just as I was expecting her to go on, she abruptly shut her mouth and stared at me. 

“You’re one to ask. Not coming to the club room again today?” 

Haruhi revealed a face that clearly said, 'it doesn’t matter whether you come or not.' I don’t care, 
though. To me, it's a great opportunity to chat with her. 

“Shamisen’s easily bored. And since I can’t entrust him to my sister, I’ll have to take full 
responsibility of taking him to the vet again.” 

“Hmm, I think that’s great.” 

Even more surprising was that even though Haruhi wore a scowl on her face, I could sense that 
she was in a pretty good mood. 

“When you’re sick, it’s only natural to rely on someone. When he’s all better, be sure to take him 
out to play. I too wish to play with a fully recovered Shamisen soon.” 

To Haruhi, Shamisen might have very well have become a brigade member already. Asking me 
to take care of him and then bring him out when she feels like playing with him, that's Haruhi for 
you, all right. Still, I think it would be a good experience for both Shamisen and me to let him go 
over to her place for a week. 

“I’ll think about it.” 

Looking up at the sky, Haruhi once again began blowing at the window pane. 


Since everyone wishes for lessons to end faster anyways, I didn’t feel how slow the flow of time 
really was. 

All I did was silently pray under my breath that my teachers not ask me to answer any questions, 
as I mechanically flipped the pages, not paying attention to what was going on. Thinking back 
about it, it was normal to showcase such behavior. Even though it wasn’t a good thing to do, and 
was probably the reason why my grades suffered so phenomenally, it was nevertheless typical. 
Feeling dread about the troublesome things I had to do after school, I consoled myself by 
thinking about how bad Taniguchi’s results were compared to mine. Hey, give me a break 
already. 



I placed my textbooks in my desk’s drawer, knowing that they would very well gather dust in my 
room anyway. My bag felt remarkably lighter, as I made my way out of the class room. Just then, 
Taniguchi, who was on class duty, patted my shoulder and said, 

“Yo, Kyon.” 

For some reason, Taniguchi looked at me with eyes that had seemed to have lost 
didn’t have the time to be fooling around with him. Asahina-san was waiting for 
understood what I was feeling, he would have let me go. 

But Taniguchi stood there as if blocking the door, and pointed the broom he was 
me. 

“How I admire you.” 

There was an air of spite in his voice. I racked my brain as I thought of what could have possibly 
inspired his admiration. I couldn’t find anything. 

“Is that so.” Taniguchi replied slowly, and sighed. 

I wonder if Haruhi’s melancholy had affected Taniguchi, too. Maybe it was some kind of 
sickness that could be transferred via the air. 

“Hey, Taniguchi.” 

Kunikida suddenly appeared and stared at Taniguchi’ s face. 

“You look like someone who just got dumped by his girlfriend, looking very depressed lately. 
What’s the matter? Don’t tell me you two really did break up.” 

Kunikida asked while busy operating the vacuum cleaner. 

“Is that so, is that so. . .” 

I smiled as I patted Taniguchi’ s back. Speaking of his girlfriend, I heard it was some girl from 
Kouyouen he got to know during Christmas. Unfortunately, I was busy eating Haruhi’s hot pot 
during Christmas, so too bad, Taniguchi. 

“Seeing your face, it looks like you got dumped. I see, I see.” 

“This can’t be.” 

My friend, who had obviously been fishing for sympathy earlier on, put on another depressed 
face as the broom fell from his hands. It was painfully clear that he was still very sad. 


their light. I 
me. If he 


holding towards 


“You should get going, you’re disturbing my cleaning.” 



Kunikida forced out a sympathetic smile. 

“Even if it hurts, I’m sure that it’s only a matter of time, Taniguchi. Pardon me for being honest, 
but even though I never once met your girlfriend, from your words I could tell that she wasn’t 
really serious from the start.” 

“How could you know if the both of you have never met? Oh, forget it. It’s not like I was 
expecting you to understand anyway—” 

“Truthfully speaking, don’t you think it’s a bit too weird to become lovers before the two of you 
even started off as friends?” 

“Bah, don’t mention this anymore. I really want to get over it as soon as possible.” 

I really wanted to stay, just to see how a typical high school drama unfolds in real life. 
Unfortunately for me, real life does not permit me to stay here any longer, and I needed to take 
my leave soon. 

“Oh well, don’t think about it too much. A good lad like you will surely meet a fine lass one of 
these days. Until then, just be patient!” 

After making my statement, I hurried out of the classroom before Taniguchi could think of a 
reply. At least I tried to console him. I’m not that kind of guy that would make fun of someone 
who’s just got dumped. Truthfully speaking, I really sympathize with you, but at the same time, 
I’m relieved to see one of my good buddies once again come back to accompany me at the 
starting line. Let’s try harder in the future, okay? 

But why did he admire me so? 

As I opened my shoe locker, I suddenly thought of many things. If Taniguchi’ s melancholy was 
due to love, could the same thing be said for Haruhi too? If Taniguchi was acting all melancholic 
because of the end of his love life, could Haruhi be acting the same due to her lack of one? 

Thinking about this, I suddenly felt scared, before I laughed out loud to myself. 

“Impossible.” 

Thinking that Haruhi’s melancholy was due to love problems was just plain stupid. The 
possibility of that happening was roughly equal to me being selected to join the national baseball 
league. And even if it did happen, I wouldn’t be happy, just like the current situation. Even if it 
was totally unrelated to my current problems, I wanted to know what Haruhi was really thinking. 
It was hard to imagine a world without Haruhi, who was presumably sulking alone in the club 
room beside the heater right now. 


“Just forget it.” 



Now’s not the time to be thinking of such things. I mean, it’s Haruhi we’re talking about. She’ll 
be okay in no time. If she knew about our treasure hunt, she’d be in high spirits instantly. Since I 
already knew what was going to happen, there was no need to worry anymore. Nor was there any 
need to try to find out any further. Because there was always the possibility of making a mistake, 
and endangering the entire SOS Brigade in the process. Just like a harmless germ, if exposed to 
laser radiation, it might very well mutate into some life-threatening organism. Even though I 
could learn a lot from this specific “germ”, the risks of it mutating were too high, and therefore I 
decided it was best to leave it alone. Was it the right choice to play it safe, or a foolish decision 
to forsake the opportunity to find out more? There’s only a blurry line between what’s right and 
what’s wrong. 

“I’ll just do what I can for the future before me, before worrying about the distant future.” 

Someone once said that the only thing certain about the future is the uncertainty it brings. But for 
me, there was something sure about the future, and that was that Asahina-san existed, and 
therefore so did the future. 

After returning home briefly, I got on to my trusty bike, and pedaled all the way to Tsuruya-san’s 
mansion. 


What I had in mind was to telephone Tsuruya-san’s house, and tell Asahina-san to come out and 
meet me. But since Tsuruya-san wasn’t home yet, things were a little tricky. I thought of asking 
one of Tsuruya-san’s maids to relay my message to Asahina-san, but after thinking that it would 
probably take a long time for me to get my message through, and an even longer time for them to 
relay it, I gave up upon the idea. Unable to decide, I finally telephoned the Tsuruya residence, 
and decided to just let the future play itself out. 

It was, as I expected, one of Tsuruya-san’s maids who picked up the phone. It seemed that 
Asahina-san was already expecting my call, as the maid didn’t ask any further question other 
than what my name was. Before I even said “Hello” to Asahina-san, she said, “I’ll go and meet 
you right away. Please wait for me”, as if totally understanding what I wanted to say. If she 
happened to become my secretary in the future, I’m sure she would display a great deal of 
potential. 

Just like Tsuruya-san, Asahina-san was a respectable sempai. Instead of conveying everything 
through the phone, why shouldn't I just let Asahina-san read the message? That would save me a 
lot of time trying to explain to her the various symbols. Now why hadn’t I thought of that 
earlier? 

Within my pockets were the said letter and a flashlight, just in case something happened. 

Because I had been to Tsuruya-san’s house too many times for me to remember, I instinctively 
knew where to go. Even though it wasn’t snowing, knowing the cold February, it would probably 
snow any time soon. While my ears and nose were turning numb from the cold winter wind, I 
continued to pedal furiously, until I finally reached Tsuruya-san’s house. 



Asahina-san’s face emerged cautiously from between the doors. 


“Kyon-kun.” 

Asahina-san let out a relieved smile, as she stepped out from Tsuruya-san’s house. She wasn’t 
dressed in her sailor uniform like she was yesterday. Instead, she was dressed in long pants and a 
thick, furry jacket. 

“I borrowed some clothes from Tsuruya-san.” 

As if noticing my blank stare, Asahina-san tightened her collar, and said: 

“Because I can’t go back home to retrieve my own clothes.” 

“So you have no memory of losing clothes?” 

I asked stupidly while sitting on my bike. It was painfully obvious, but that was all I could think 
of at that moment. 

Asahina-san didn’t look too good, as she said, 

“Erm. . . I can’t really remember if I lost any garments. . . Because I never once thought of going 
through them to search if any of them went missing. . . Even if I did lose some I doubt I would 
notice. . . But that’s not to say that I have too many outfits to choose from. . . umm. . .” 

You need not worry too much. If it were me, I wouldn’t have noticed if a pair of my pants 
suddenly went missing and even if I did, I couldn’t go around blindly accusing people of stealing 
them. If that really did happen, all I would do was stay quiet. Not like I would really mind 
anyway. 

I gently looked at Asahina-san. It doesn’t matter whether those clothes are yours or not, anything 
would look great on you. 

“N-no. . . T-there’s no such thing. . .” 

Asahina-san shook her hands in embarrassment. 

“The sleeves are too long for me, and. . .” 

Asahina-san reached for her chest, and gently laid her fingers on them. Her face blushed bright 
red, as her movements stopped. 

“I-I-I- It’s okay... R-really... Ahahahaha!” 

After a moment of silence, my heart finally calmed down. Tsuruya-san may have had longer 
hands and feet, as well as a taller figure, but on Asahina-san, there were also places that were too 



tight. At one glance, anyone could see which part was too small for Asahina-san. I knew that 
beneath the jacket lay a hot figure. It was too bad that I couldn’t see it without the jacket. But 
then again, I was sure that I would be able to in the future. 

I took out the letter I found in my shoe locker this morning. 

“It seems that this time we have to do it no matter what. Do you know why?” 

Scale a mountain. Move a rock. This seemed like those RPGs, where the main character would 
be given a rather pointless mission, without any explanation why he had to do it. And there 
wasn’t any mentioning of what he would obtain should he follow the instructions given either. 
Worse, there wasn’t any guarantee that even if the hero did oblige, he would obtain something 
good. 

“Hmm. . . Is it that mountain? It’s the only mountain I know. Oddly-shaped rock? Rocks. . . 

Hmm . . . Ah, could it be ... ?” 

Asahina-san softly muttered to herself while she read the letter, which was gently caressed by the 
wind. She was thinking aloud, just like a little lost mouse who had forgotten the way back to his 
little hole. 

“I have a general idea of where we’re supposed to go. It should be the site of the treasure hunt. In 
other words, it’s the only place I know.” 

I nodded. It made sense. 

“But, what should we do?” 

Obviously, I had no clue. But I did have an idea. 

“Asahina-san, did we really not find anything?” 

“Yes... I mean, no, we didn’t.” 

My hands were slowly turning numb from the cold. Asahina-san folded the letter, and I suddenly 
felt uneasy. What was this feeling? 

“Doesn’t it seem strange? No matter how you look at it, this order has something to do with 
treasure hunting.” 

“W-well...” 

Asahina-san lowered her head. 


“What does this mean? Hmm. . .” 



Not knowing whether ignorance is bliss or not knowing anything was not good, Asahina-san 
shook her head and looked at me. 


“I still can’t seem to make out anything. I guess it's best that we head to the mountain. Maybe I’ll 
remember something there. . .” 

“That makes sense.” 

Anyhow, we should first head there to have a look. Haruhi would undoubtedly be unhappy if she 
were to find out that I’d been there ahead of her, but I suppose that I could always pretend that 
I’d never been to the place before, should she ask. 

I got onto my bike, and persuaded Asahina-san to sit behind me. Afraid of falling off, Asahina- 
san wrapped her hands tightly around my waist. I suddenly recalled last night. 

“What’s the matter?” 

Asahina-san asked me softly, just as I was identifying left and right. 

“Nah, it’s nothing.” 

I replied simply, as I began pedaling. My mind, however, was silently thinking about something 
else. 

Was that guy last night Koizumi? Or was it merely someone who looked like him? I hadn’t 
really got a good glance at him, and it was dark too. 

I shunned those thoughts from of my mind, and continued to head for the mountain. 


Maybe it was due to Tsuruya-san’s mansion being too big, but I soon lost all sense of direction. 

Tsuruya-san’s private mountain was located east of North High. Instead of being called a 
mountain, it should be called a hill, as it wasn’t really as high as a mountain above sea level. As I 
scanned the area around me, I was disappointed to not find any monuments left behind by some 
ancient civilization. Looking up high, all I could see were trees, trees, and more trees. Be it a 
mountain, a cliff, a dune, or a sleeping volcano, scaling it was no easy task. The same could be 
said for this hill. There were no specially-made paths for ascension. It would take equal amounts 
of time and energy to ascend or descend, or simply put, to go up and down the hill. Even a 
grizzly bear would feel tired climbing this steep hill. 

“It’s this place alright. Let’s start climbing.” 



Following Asahina-san’s directions, I silently pushed my bike uphill, and scaled the hill. The sun 
was already beginning to set. As I looked down, vast vegetable fields came into view, but there 
wasn’t a single soul in sight. 


“Are you sure it’s alright to just climb someone else’s mountain? We’re technically trespassing 
on private property you know.” 

I said as I wearily made my way to the top of the hill. Asahina-san suddenly let out a soft laugh. 
“Tsuruya-san said it’s alright. Kyaa~ That’s what I heard her say a few days ago. . . Oh no, 
wait. . . That should be tomorrow. . . She should be telling you this tomorrow.” 

I felt as if I had finally grasped the situation. It may seem like the past to Asahina-san, but to me 
it was the future. I only hoped that she would shed more light on what I should do. 

“Erm. . . That’s all I can tell you for now. . . The treasure hunt and city patrol should happen 
pretty soon now. . .” 

Then what about the lucky draw? 

“A-ah... T-that...” 

Asahina-san was immediately thrown into a state of panic, as she blushed furiously. Hmm, 
anything else? 

“W-well... T-that...” 

Was Asahina-san panicking because she was hiding something? Classified information? 

“Y-yes! That’s it, classified information. . . Well, at least classified for now.” 

From the look on her face, I couldn’t feel any sense of superiority at all. Even though I didn’t 
know if she knew about any big, cataclysmic secrets about the future, I was confident that she at 
least knew about some events from the recent future, events that she was concealing from me. So 
does that mean that the only one who knows absolutely nothing is Asahina-san (Mikuru)? Gah 
this is frustrating. If put in inequalities, it would probably be: 

Asahina-san (Big) > Asahina-san (Michiru) > Asahina-san (Mikuru) 

I sighed loudly. Upon hearing this, Asahina-san became even more anxious than before. 

“Erm... Kyon-kun...?” 

Asahina-san said with her back faced to me. From her voice, I was sure that her eyes were filled 
with tears. If she stared at me with those pitiful eyes, I was sure that I couldn’t answer her 
question calmly. I admit that I had no evil intentions at that time, but even so, my mind was filled 
with immense feelings of love that had somehow exploded out from somewhere and were fast 



overfilling my soul. My face crumpled like Shamisen’s belly under her magical touch, as I 
forced myself to say: 

“Oh, it’s alright, there’s no need to worry. Even if you don’t say anything, I think I’ll understand 
everything in a few days time.” 

If what Asahina-san said was true, then I would know everything after eight days. To her it 
seemed like the past, but in reality it was my future. I could know everything that would happen 
within these 8 days if I were to ask Asahina-san, but then again, I would still know what would 
happen even if I didn’t ask her. All I needed to do was wait. Time will tell, or so they say. Now if 
time didn’t tell, wouldn’t that be stranger still? 

“Let’s finish what we’re here for before nightfall.” 

I said as I gently placed my arms around Asahina-san’s shoulders. Asahina-san looked at me 
with puppy-like eyes, and slowly nodded her head. 

“Oh, ok. Let me lead the way. We need to go further up, before we start climbing.” 

So, the both of us hiked through the dense jungles. I had originally planned to take the lead, 
hacking away at the dangerous twigs and tree roots, but after taking into consideration that 
Asahina-san might slip and roll downhill anytime, I quickly changed my mind. Since it was still 
winter, all snakes of any sort would be busy hibernating, so I guess it wasn’t that dangerous after 
all. This way, even if Asahina-san were to slip, I would be able to catch her in my arms and 
protect her. 

“A- Ah... Oops...” 

No matter how you look at it, Asahina-san + steep mountain always equals danger. Add to the 
above equation that this was no ordinary mountain, and you get the picture. While scaling a 
mountain, one would usually zigzag along like a snake, but due to excessive stones and tree 
branches, things were more complicated than usual. 

I lost count of how many times Asahina-san nearly slipped and fell. Even though I had to arch 
my back to protect her, a smile was always on my face whenever that happened. We were 
walking in a mountain unfit for humans, no doubt, but no matter where we went, there was 
always a “correct” path leading deeper into the mountains. By “path” I mean a route that wild 
beasts probably also found better to follow. But even so, I was happy. If this were a “normal” 
mountain, then there wouldn’t be any need for Asahina-san to walk in front of me, would there? 

After a good ten minutes of walking, a small, even patch of land soon came into view. 

“Yes, this is the place. Even though it’s been dug like this, the stone’s still here.” 


Asahina-san panted, as she arched her back and placed her hands on her knees. 



I followed suit, standing beside Asahina-san. 

“Huh?” 

There were various slopes on the mountain, but this was the first time I had come across flat 
land. There was thick overgrowth growing everywhere, save a small patch of land that was 
shaped like a semi-circle, no larger than 10 meters in diameter. The grass there was sparse, and 
from the looks of it, it was as if someone had shaved away a whole part of the mountain via a 
landslide long long ago. It didn’t seem like it had happened recently. 

After our breathing returned to normal, I looked at the direction Asahina-san was pointing at. 

“If it’s a rock we’re talking about, I think it’s that one. . . It looks exactly the same as the one in 
the drawing...” 

“A gourd shaped rock.” 

A... rock? 

“Erm, isn’t that a little too big to be called a rock? 

And aren’t you exaggerating too much? How is this any bit identical to the drawing? If it weren’t 
for Asahina-san, even if I searched till sunrise, I doubt I would have spotted it. 

“Well, it does slightly resemble a gourd. . .” 

The rock was not evenly shaped. The side facing me was flat, so from my point of view, it 
resembled a turtle’s back more than a gourd. And due to the excessive overgrowth surrounding 
the rock, it was hard to make it out from its surroundings. It was no easy task spotting this rock, 
all right. 

I double-checked the orders on the letter. 

“Shift this rock three meters to the west, eh?” 

It had already begun to turn dark. If we stayed here any longer, things might turn dangerous. 
After all, who knew what lingered in these woods? Plus, if we were to slip as we made our way 
down, the both of us would inevitably be pulled down the mountain, so I knew I had to make 
pace. 

I passed my flashlight to Asahina-san and asked her to help me illuminate my surroundings. 
Here’s to hoping that I can manage to lift this rock up. 


“Damn, this is heavy.” 



That wasn’t all. Only after I had begun lifting the rock up did I realize that one third of it was 
still buried in the ground. This has officially broken the definitions of “rock”. It should be 
labeled as “boulder” instead. 


After much effort, I finally managed to hoist the rock out of the ground. Only then did I realize 
that it really did resemble a gourd. It was only because one third of it was buried in the ground 
that I failed to notice. 

I once again lifted the rock, and headed to my west. Pulling with all my strength, I made four 
giant paces to my right. That should be around three meters. 

“I think you’re slightly beyond three meters.” 

Asahina-san said as she pointed at the rock. From her point of view, she should have a better 
estimate of how far three meters was. 

“That’s it. Just place it there.” 

After following Asahina-san’ s instructions, I placed the rock down on the ground, as it made a 
thundering noise, before sinking deeper into the ground. That should allow it to resume its 
original posture. 

“That rock. . . It’s standing. . .” 

Asahina-san said through surprised eyes. 

“Just like... A symbol...” 

I looked at the rock I had just moved. 

A symbol. 

From this angle, the strange rock was really obvious. What kind of rock it was, this I had no idea, 
all I knew was that it was snow-white. This snow-white stone, standing in the midst of pure 
darkness, was really a sight to behold. A white, gourd-shaped rock. If I were to spread the word, 
I’m sure many would think of it as some ancient ruin. 

“Asahina-san, don’t tell me Haruhi plans to dig beneath this rock?” 

“Yes. The ones who will do the digging would be Kyon-kun and Koizumi-kun.” 

And we didn’t find anything? Honest? 

“Yes.” 

Asahina-san said as she lowered her head, “There were no treasures or the sort. . .” 



I sighed as I clapped my filthy hands together. 


Then, what was I doing now? Come to think of it, I had been following strange orders for two 
days in a row. Yesterday it was the prank, and to top it off, someone actually fell for it. Why we 
did that, even Asahina-san didn’t know. The only person who probably knew what was going on 
would be Asahina-san (Big). I have to remember to ask her why, should I meet her again. The 
next time something like this happens again, I’ll definitely not play along. 

I once again looked at the rock. There was something not right about it. The rock had originally 
slanted towards its side, thus it was only natural that half of it be covered with dirt. Since I had 
just removed it from the ground, there was a huge, glaring portion that was dirty, while the other 
half of it was sparkling clean. It was painfully obvious that someone had just moved it not long 
ago. 

“That crater is too obvious; anyone would realize it.” 

The “crater” was where the rock originally was. The soil there was a dark black, and curved 
inward. It didn’t take a genius to put two and two together. 

“How was the crater like when you last visited the mountain?” 

Asahina-san revealed an expression that appeared to be deep in thought. 

“Erm. . . Since no one said anything, I myself didn’t notice it. The only one who talked was 
Suzumiya-san, and all she did was talk about digging holes. . .” 

If so, let’s just ignore the plot holes for the time being, and see what can we do to minimize the 
errors. 

Asahina-san and I searched for dry twigs, vines and leaves, before placing them atop the crater. 
After we had filled the crater, the both of us took turns stamping on it. The results were far from 
convincing, since it had taken the rock years of weathering to achieve such conditions, but it was 
better than nothing. 

The sky was already rapidly darkening, and soon we had trouble seeing even if we squinted our 
eyes. I decided to call it a day. 

“Let’s head back home, Asahina-san.” 

This time, it was I who took the lead. I was grateful that I remembered to bring along a 
flashlight. The ancients once feared the darkness and worshipped the light like a divine entity. 
Now, thanks to modern day science, there was no longer the need to do so, as I carried the divine 
entity in my own hands. 



Compared to scaling the mountain, heading down was a breeze. There were many times 
Asahina-san missed her footing, and each time she stumbled, she would cling on to me for her 
dear life. Not that I’m complaining or anything. 

By the time we had reached the foot of the mountain, it was truly nightfall. Both of us sighed 
simultaneously. 

“Ah,” 

Asahina-san said as she looked upwards towards the sky. 

“It’s raining.” 

Within five minutes, the small drizzle had already escalated into a downpour. 


Riding my bike as fast as I could, with Asahina-san sitting behind me, I sped towards Tsuruya- 
san’s residence. At first, I was really grateful for such an opportunity to befall me. Riding down a 
slope on a bike in the rain, with a goddess behind me, what’s there not to be grateful about? 

Barely halfway towards Tsuruya-san’s house, however, I felt as if I had only one third of my 
energy left. As I pedaled furiously in the rain, Tsuruya-san’s house finally came into sight. It was 
only then did I notice someone was already there awaiting us. 

“Aha, welcome back nyoro-” 

Just like yesterday, Tsuruya-san was dressed in a long kimono, as she carried an umbrella above 
her head, smiling energetically as she opened the door, awaiting our return. 

“Where have the both of you been? Ah forget it; it must be due to some reason that you can’t tell 
me, right? Don’t worry, I’m not such a busybody anyways. Who, Miku— I mean, Michiru, 
you’re filthy all over! Let’s go take a bath, shall we?” 

Tsuruya-san said the above in a single breath. 

“It’s cold outside, isn’t it? Come on in and have a bath first! That’s right, a bath! Kyon, would 
you like to join us too? I’ll scrub your back for you nyoro-” 

Even though I was moved by the suggestion, I knew that Tsuruya-san was just pulling my leg. 
Haruhi loved to blurt out some serious suggestions while putting on a look that suggested she 
was just kidding. Tsuruya-san, on the other hand, loved to crack out jokes while putting on a 
straight face. 


“I think I’ll head home. Well, please take care of Asahina Michiru for me.” 



As I turned to leave, Tsuruya-san caught hold of my sleeve. 

“Wait just a second.” 

Tsuruya-san said as she reached for her lap. 

“Here is something I promised Haruhi. Would you please hand it over to her?” 

Tsuruya-san produced a thick sheet of curled up paper. Studying it carefully, I noticed that it was 
made out of ancient, Japanese paper, so old and worn out that it resembled a papyrus. There were 
mosquito bites all over it too. It didn’t take a genius to find out that this was the “treasure map” 
in question. 

“What’s this?” 

I asked, playing along. 

“Erm, it’s a treasure map.” 

Tsuruya-san replied, just as I expected. 

“It’s an ancient custom that all treasure maps be kept in rattan cages. I happened to stumble upon 
this one not long ago. I’ve wanted to pass it to Haruhi for quite some time now, but for some 
reason I keep forgetting to do so.” 

Is it okay to just give away a treasure map? I mean, it’s buried treasure, Tsuruya-san. 
TREASURE. 

“It’s alright. I couldn’t be bothered to hike all the way up some old mountain just to spend half a 
day there digging. If there really is treasure buried there, all I want is one tenth of the entire lot. 
God knows how long that treasure has been buried! Based on ancient records, the treasure was 
left by one of my ancestors who particularly liked to play tricks. This might be a trick conceived 
by that devious old trickster to fool us descendants. After digging for half a day, only to not find 
anything, that sounds like a grand trick he would pull to fool stupid humans!” 

It looks like we’re the “stupid humans” in question here. 

“But look on the bright side. There’s a chance that something is really buried there.” 

I tried my best to put on a face that seemed as if I was honored, as I took the map from Tsuruya- 
san. It was something that Tsuruya-san had dug up especially for us, but somehow, I didn’t feel 
the least bit thrilled. 


“Be sure to pass that to Haruhi, okay?” 



Tsuruya-san said as she winked at me, before laughing madly. Asahina-san had a stoic 
expression on her face, as she alternated her glance between the treasure map and me. Upon 
noticing that I was staring straight at her, she lowered her head. 

What’s going on? I wanted to question out loudly. What was it with the treasure hunt? Why was 
Asahina-san sent back to the past? Did it have any connection with the treasure hunt? I’ll be 
damned if it doesn’t. It seemed to me that this treasure hunt was nothing but good news, both to 
me and Asahina-san. 

“Ah, Kyon, take this umbrella. Be sure to watch your step, okay? Bye bye!” 

Tsuruya-san said as she waved wildly, before disappearing together with Asahina-san into that 
huge mansion of hers. 

All that was left was me, standing in the midst of the rain, with an umbrella above my head, 
along with a crumpled roll of parchment. 

For some reason, I wanted to take a shower, nay, a bath. I felt a sense of immense loneliness. 
Was it due to someone as cheerful as Tsuruya-san suddenly leaving my side? I felt as if a 
ceremony had ended. . . or something like that. 

“It’s cold out here.” 

I placed the umbrella on my shivering shoulders as I started to pedal back home. 

Be it Haruhi, Asahina-san or even Nagato, each of them had the power to drive me nuts. 

“Gah, I’m hungry.” 

I didn’t meet Koizumi this time on my way back home. That’s too bad, because if I did, I would 
definitely do what he likes to do the most - talk. 


The day the other Asahina-san showed up in the broom closet, the clouds were already beginning 
to move far north. Today, the weather was pretty pleasant. It wasn’t too cold, but it wasn't too 
hot either. 

As usual, I climbed up the slope to school, and due to the nice weather, I felt thoroughly warm as 
I reached the gates of North High. Compared to the usual weather, where I would barely break a 
sweat after being cooped up in a heatless class room, today was much better. 

After walking past the school gates, and promptly the school doors, I arrived at my shoe locker. 
Before opening it, I drew a deep breath. I had a strange feeling of foreboding. I knew that my 
“orders” from the future would continue, and so I dreaded opening the shoe locker. I knew that 
once I opened it, a letter would be readily awaiting me, a letter that was delivered by God- 



knows-who, during God-knows-when. But there wasn’t a choice, was there? I needed to open the 
shoe locker to change my shoes, after all. 


As I expected, there was a letter in there. 

Alongside two identical letters. 

“You can’t be serious, Asahina-san...” 

Once again, the letters were typed out using clear font. On each of the letters were the numbers 
#3, #4 and #6, along with the letters “three”, “four” and. . . “six”? 

“So does that mean the previous two were #1 and #2? And the first note was number zero?” 

But why did the numbers skip to six right after four? Where was number five? Was it a typo? 

I stuffed all three letters into my pocket, and charged towards the washroom. I was beginning to 
get used to this routine already. 

Inside the washroom, I opened each and every one of those letters according to their numbers. 

There wasn’t much time to the bell, so I briefly read each of those letters, before heading out of 
the cubicle, and looking straight into the mirror. From my reflection, I could see the weird 
expression plastered on my face. 

What in the world was Asahina-san (Big) trying to say? No, before that, what purpose did 
sending an unknown man to the hospital and moving an unknown rock have? I greatly wanted to 
know what would happen next. 

Wearing a mystified expression on my face, I entered the classroom, only to find a girl who 
couldn’t calm down waiting for me. 

“Kyon!” 

The girl that ran towards me while shouting out my name would be Suzumiya Haruhi, who was 
up until yesterday still in a fit of melancholy. 

“Hurry up and show it to me!” 

For a moment, I wondered what to show Haruhi, who was flashing me her million-watt 
trademark smile. 

“Don’t tell me you forgot all about it? That thing Tsuruya-san asked you to safeguard? How 
could you forget something so important?” 



The sudden change in Haruhi’s mood surprised me completely. There was absolutely no trace of 
melancholy left in her already. What happened to the melancholic, soft-spoken you that sat 
behind me yesterday? Don’t tell me that was an impostor I met yesterday? 

“What are you mumbling about? I’m always like this. Where else in the world would you find 
someone like me?” 

Haruhi said airily as she swept her hair upwards, smiling brightly at the same time. 

“Come on, stop fooling around. Let me have a look at that thing right now! If you’ve forgotten it, 
let’s hurry up and take a cab back home to retrieve it!” 

Alright, alright, I get it. Just settle down for a moment. Everyone in class is starting to look at the 
both of us now. Geez, and here I was wishing for a normal school life. 

“Such a boring goal should be placed onto a paper airplane and flown down from the school 
roof. An attractive lifestyle or even a socially- withdrawn hikkikomori would be better than your 
so-called ‘normal’, boring lifestyle. And if you’re going to talk about your life, please do that 
only three seconds before you die.” 

I don’t think my life can be condensed into three seconds of speech, nor do I intend to live one 
that is able to. Sighing, I reached into my bag and withdrew the roll of parchment. 
Unsurprisingly, it vanished from my clutches two seconds later. 

Unwinding the scroll at superhuman speed, Haruhi asked me, 

“Have you read it already?” 

“No.” 

“Really?” 

Yes. From the moment it reached my hands, there wasn’t any intention at all to open it. 

“But it’s a treasure map, for crying out loud! Doesn’t the sound of buried treasure get you all 
excited?” 

What’s there to be excited about treasure that I know I won’t be able to find? All that awaits me 
atop that mountain is a backache, and if things are worse, a couple of bruises and sprains. What I 
wanted to hear was Haruhi’s reason for her excitement. All I had in mind while I pocketed 
Tsuruya-san’s “gift” was to hand it over to Haruhi. There wasn’t the least bit interest in digging 
up some ancient buried treasure. Truthfully speaking, I really wanted to tell Haruhi, ‘Hey, let’s 
just forget all about this treasure hunting business, okay?’, but alas, Haruhi was already busy 
studying the map. 



“Humph, Tsuruya-san shouldn’t have done that. She should have handed it straight to me, 
instead of giving it to you for safekeeping. Even though it would mean that I would be able to get 
my hands on the map sooner, I would have preferred it if she gave it to me as a surprise. . .” 

Haruhi said as she turned her back towards me and headed back to her seat. She then proceeded 
to take out her pencil case and textbooks to use them as paperweights, as she once again studied 
the map closely. 

I too headed back towards my seat, a renewed sense of curiosity springing up within me. 

“Hey, Haruhi.” 

“What is it?” 

Haruhi said as she flicked her eyes upwards. 

“How did you know that Tsuruya-san passed the map to me?” 

“Tsuruya-san phoned me yesterday.” 

Haruhi replied, this time not even bothering to look up at me. 

“You took Shamisen for a walk, didn’t you? You passed by Tsuruya-san’s house as you took 
him for a walk, that’s how she passed the map to you. It seems that Shamisen is feeling better 
already, that’s good news!” 

It was probably Tsuruya-san who had thought of that lie. I’ve never heard of anybody bringing a 
cat out for a walk amidst this cold weather, and to top it off, it was raining last night. For you to 
believe such lousy lies, what are you thinking about, Haruhi? 

I pretended to look serious, and acted as if nothing even happened. Haruhi looked as if the school 
had announced that today was a holiday, as her eyes shone with excitement. “Look, Kyon, this 
must be where the treasure is buried! It says so right here!” 

My gaze fell on the map, which was lying on Haruhi’ s table. 

The map was so old, it could probably be sold to a museum as an antique. There were numerous 
sentences written in black ink, before being signed with a large signature. I gave up trying to 
decipher the writings, as I looked at the drawings beneath it. There was a mountain, which was 
no doubt the one I had scaled yesterday, and probably would scale again tomorrow. The map was 
drawn using black ink, and was very simple, but it succeeded in describing the looks of the 
mountain perfectly. The words were probably written in ancient writing, but to me, it seemed 
more like an alien textbook than a map. I probably wouldn’t understand these rich pieces of 
literature anyway. 


Haruhi probably did, however, as she translated it out loud to me: 



“On this mountain, there is something very valuable, something that only my descendants may 
acquire. It is something that I am sure would make them happy. Whoever seeks the treasure, 
please dig here.” 

Beneath the text was signed: “15 Genroku, Tsuruya.” 

I had no idea which ancestor this was to Tsuruya-san, but he sure did a lot of redundant stuff. 
What was so important that it required it to be buried in the ground? If it was really as Tsuruya- 
san said, wouldn’t this be a great prank that escalated over the centuries? It was already several 
hundred years since the Genroku period. Surely someone in the Tsuruya house must have 
already dug the treasure up by now? 

“Where on Earth is the treasure buried?” 

Haruhi said to the uninterested me as she traced her finger all over the map. 

“It isn’t stated anywhere in here, and there’s no ‘X’ sign either! Even though we know it’s a 
mountain, we still don’t know where to search!” 

“Oh, forget it.” 

Haruhi looked at me, clearly stressed by the ordeal. 

“If we put our hearts into it, I’m sure we’ll manage to find it.” 

Who do you mean by ‘we’? Are you going to rally the townsfolk? 

“Of course not, stupid.” Haruhi said as she rolled the map back to its original state, before tying a 
knot and putting it safely on her desk. 

“It’s just the few of us, of course! You’re in charge of distributing the tasks. Or are you not 
satisfied with that?” 

If I really had a choice, I would have chosen to not participate in this stupid event. I didn’t even 
know how many tasks there were, or who should I assign each task to. Just as my heart was 
sighing, the bell rang, as the homeroom teacher Okabe-sensei stepped into class. 

“Meet in the clubroom after class.” 

Haruhi said as she poked my back with her mechanical pencil. 

“I want you to keep this a secret from everyone else. Let it be a surprise. When I announce my 
find, I want you to pretend to be shocked, too. If only Tsuruya-san had. . .” 


Haruhi’ s voice began to grow louder, but her voice was drowned out by the sound of all the other 
students standing up and paying respect to the teacher. 



Someone please tell me how the heck do you pay attention in class! I’ll admit that I’m an easily 
distracted person, so if anyone has a way to memorize everything being said in class, please let 
me know. It doesn’t matter if it’s only half of what’s being taught, it’s always better than not 
knowing anything at all. I know that notes are the way to go, but even so, there must be some 
catch to being able to sit down quietly and take down notes. Anyone know the trick here? 

This is what someone once told me: “There’s no need to pay attention in class, all you have to do 
is not think about anything else unrelated to class”, or something of the sort. In other words, all I 
had to do was to not think of anything else. Since my ears would definitely be bored by then, 
they would have no choice but to listen to what the teacher had to say, and hence I would be able 
to understand what the teacher was trying to convey. It seems logical, right? 

Well, I guess it’s worth a shot. After all, the one who had passed down this sacred technique to 
me was none other than Haruhi herself and it was probably a technique from the long-lost Hiten- 
Haruhi-Ryu. 

The catch was this: I was fine with not paying attention in class, but it was almost impossible to 
not think of anything else, and even if I did, would life be happy that way? I don’t think Haruhi 
would want to lead that kind of boring, mundane life. As I started to gradually doubt her words, I 
suddenly recalled that her results were top notch, a huge contrast with reality. 

Trying not to think of anything else right now was plainly futile. Admittedly, I had one less 
problem to worry about now thanks to that scroll of old parchment. Haruhi’ s melancholy had 
magically evaporated after receiving that old map, thus saving the world from huge blue giants 
was something that I did not need to worry about. 

What I did need to think about, though, were those three letters from Asahina-san (Big). It was 
something that concerned both Asahina-san (Future) and me, something that we needed to 
accomplish before the designated day. It wasn’t something that I could idle about, and even if I 
were to rush out of the classroom right now, it would be the first thing on my mind that I had to 
accomplish... 

Gah, with such thoughts in mind, how can you blame me for not understanding what the teacher 
had to say? 


After school, Haruhi forcefully dragged me into the club room, just like a fish being dragged 
away by a fisherman’s net. 

Thanks to Tsuruya-san, I couldn’t use Shamisen as an excuse to skip club activities anymore. 
And since I had no other matters today, I was forced to follow her into the club room. 



The orders from the future explicitly stated that I would be very free for today and for tomorrow. 
It was only the day after tomorrow, and the day after that, that I would be very busy. It was easy 
to see why. There were two days of holidays, followed by a Sunday, making it a consecutive 
three days without the need to go to school. And since there was an extra day that students didn’t 
need to come to school because of the entrance exams, it meant that I would have a long, four 
day holiday period. 

Time travelers seemed to like using shoe lockers as mailboxes. Was there a problem with 
handing the letters directly to me? I had many questions to ask Asahina-san (Big), after all. 

I had thought of the above problems while I was in class, and I hadn’t thought of a solution even 
as I now gradually approached the literature club. 

“Yo! Sorry for the wait!” 

With an energetic shout, Haruhi pushed open the doors to the club room, while dragging me by 
the collar. For some reason, I felt extremely nostalgic at that gesture, as if I hadn’t experienced it 
in a long, long time. Perhaps it was due to my three days absence from the club room. Even if it 
was only three days, I had started to miss this place like an old exile yearning for his homeland. 
Once I entered the club room, I felt like I was finally back home. 


Ka * \ 



£3 

With an energetic shout, Haruhi pushed open the doors to the club room, while dragging me by the 
collar. 

Trying to shake off these weird feelings, I closed the doors that Haruhi had conveniently left 
open, and looked at each brigade member’s face. 

The first person I saw was the sailor-uniform clad first year, who was sitting in the corner 
reading a book, just like always. 



Nagato looked at Haruhi and me with her expressionless poker face, before turning back to her 
book. No extra gestures or “welcome back” speeches, this was the Nagato I had come to know, 
the goddess silently sitting in a corner of the club room reading a book. 

“Hey, long time no see.” 

Sitting by the table and playing with a carom board all by himself was Koizumi, the one who 
always wore a smile, and whose words you never knew when to trust. “How’s Shamisen-One? If 
it’s possible, I would like to arrange for one of my friend’s relatives to see him. You see, my 
friend’s relative in question operates an animal clinic, and I’ve heard it’s a very good one.” 

Like I’m going to buy that. It’s not like the first day I’ve met you anyway. 

“Hmm, it seems that you’ve got many friends in various fields, Koizumi.” 

Koizumi gently flicked a carom piece with his finger. “That’s how legends are created, right? 
From the friends I’ve known, and from the friends my friends have known, the only friends I 
don’t have are...” 

Koizumi gracefully retraced his hands and said elegantly, as if rehearsing for a play: 

“People who are not native to this world.” 

Come off it. I’ve already known of aliens, time travelers and espers. With such a wide social 
circle, I really think I’m better off not knowing of any sliders, because the appearance of one 
would be sure to give me a headache. 

Koizumi gave me a soft laugh, signaling the end of our conversation. Even Haruhi had begun to 
turn her head in our direction in amusement. 

“I heard that there would be a meeting today.” 

“Yes, you’re right. An emergency meeting, for that matter.” 

Haruhi said as she took her place by the Brigade Commander’s table. 

“Mikuru-chan, tea.” 

“Okay.” 

With a pitter-patter, Asahina-san came running to Haruhi dressed in her cute maid uniform. It 
was Asahina-san, alright. 


Wait, that’s strange. Shouldn’t it only be natural that I see Asahina-san here at the club room? 
Hmm... 



“Erm...” I stuttered. 


It seems that I need some time to reorganize the cluttered thoughts in my brain. The Asahina-san 
standing here is different from the current Asahina-san sitting in Tsuruya-san’s house. This is not 
the Asahina-san from further in the future, but rather the Asahina-san from the closer future. 

“Erm... Kyon-kun...” 

Asahina-san said while clumsily filling the kettle with hot water. She looked at me with a look of 
concern. It was exactly the same look that the other Asahina-san had given me three days ago. 
Wait, that’s to be expected since they’re one and the same. Oh, what am I saying? I pushed those 
thoughts out of my mind as I braced myself for what Asahina-san had to say. 

“How’s Shamisen? Was he sick because we brought him to a place too cold for him when it was 
already cold enough outside?” 

“Well, no...” 

I could finally confirm that this Asahina-san knew nothing about the future, or at least, until. . . 
Erm. . . The evening five days later. After that, she would probably have to face an entire set of 
ordeals. 

How do you put it, it was already meant to be? Gah, this is annoying. 

“Shamisen’s already okay. He’s been better since yesterday, seeing that he was already rolling 
around energetically by that time.” 

“Is that so? That’s just great.” 

Asahina-san said as she revealed a beautiful smile. Seeing this made me even more uneasy. 
Shamisen’s illness was just a big fat lie, this I’m sure Asahina-san (Michiru) knew. But since she 
didn’t say anything, this Asahina-san probably had no clue it was just a lie. I felt as if I had 
betrayed her trust, and had a sudden sense to apologize to her immediately. 

“Let me play with him a little bit more. Shamisen’s just so cute.” 

There’s nothing cuter than you. Even if you were locked in some dark corner of the Milky Way 
for five hundred years, you would still be just as cute. But if you’re going to use Shamisen as an 
excuse to come visit my home, you’re more than welcome. Besides, Shamisen has been 
frequently bringing that black cat he calls his girlfriend back home lately. Maybe they were using 
visiting me as an excuse? 

“Ah, well... That’s just fine... Ah!” 

Asahina-san yelped as she suddenly jumped. 



“The tea spilt...” 


Overflowed would be the word. Since she was too busy talking with me about Shamisen, 
Asahina-san hadn’t noticed that the kettle was already full. However, this seemed to suit 
Haruhi’s “clumsy maid” idea, as she looked at Asahina-san with her arms crossed, apparently 
glad at the sight of her cleaning up the spilt tea. 

I pulled out one of those steel foldable chairs, and took my seat by Koizumi’s side. Haruhi 
radiated an aura of superiority, but was oddly quiet, as if she had wanted to wait until we had all 
settled down before making her grand announcement. 

“Sorry for the wait.” 

Asahina-san said as she placed two steaming cups of tea onto the tray, before handing them to 
both me and Haruhi. I had a feeling that Haruhi would wait until I had finished drinking my tea 
before making her announcement, since she had no intention of standing up. After downing her 
steaming tea, Haruhi leaned back on her chair as she turned the computer on, and while waiting 
for the computer to boot, flipped some magazines on the table. Both of us locked eyes once in a 
while, and every time we did so, she would have a different expression on her face. She would 
sometimes seem strict and sometimes laugh evilly. Talk about having a hundred faces. Was this 
the dreaded calm before the storm? 

Koizumi had an expression that suggested he knew nothing at all, as he reorganized the pieces on 
the carom board; Nagato had the same expression from the start - which is to say none at all; 
Asahina-san was busy preparing the second round of tea. Everything seemed like it used to be, so 
normal, so. . . Perfect. That was what made it seem odd. What was it that made Haruhi decide to 
just let time pass like this? What about the treasure hunt? 

After a few minutes of fruitless thinking, I decided to not think about it, and let my mind wander 
wherever it liked. 


Not long afterwards, that brief moment of peace was broken. It wasn’t by Haruhi’s shouting, or 
by announcements forcing students to go home, but by a series of knocks on the front door. 
“Yes, here it is! Come in!” 

Haruhi yelled in response to the knockings, as she stood up from the chair at bullet speed. 

“I’ve been waiting for you! Please, do come in!” 

It was rare to see the Brigade Commander open the door for anyone, especially for a guest. 



“Aha, it’s Mikuru-chan and the other Brigade members! Long time no see! Oh wait, Kyon, we 
just met yesterday! Shamisen’s such a playful little thing, next time be sure to bring him over to 
play!” 

Tsuruya-san shouted loudly as she entered. Placing her arms around Haruhi’s shoulders, the both 
of them began to dance wildly. Here we go again. 

“Hmm, that’s it. The map. It should be an ancient treasure around 300 years old, probably some 
old Genroku period coins. It would be great if we could find it!” 

Tsuruya-san announced loudly as she sat by the table and began chewing down the prawn 
crackers that were served on the table. 

“This old, worn out paper is one of my family heirlooms. The buried treasure in question could 
be anything at all. That day, after cleaning up the store room, I found this priceless piece of 
treasure buried under a bunch of worthless trash, rattan case still intact -nyoro!” 

After spitting out each and every one of those words at bullet-train speed, Tsuruya-san downed 
Asahina-san’s tea, stood up, and pointed at the whiteboard. 

The old map was pinned down by its edges by four large magnets. Standing nearby the board 
was Haruhi, who was busy scratching her back with a cane and had a very pleased look on her 
face. 

“This mountain used to be government property before it came into my family’s possession. We 
shouldn’t take my ancestor’s words lightly! Something must be buried there, right? Oh, great 
ancestor...” 

Tsuruya-san clasped her hands together and bowed towards the setting sun. Haruhi took this 
opportunity to tap the whiteboard with her cane. 

“That is it.” 

That is it? Right now, all I’ve heard is Tsuruya-san explaining the map’s history. 

“And that’s all. Why her ancestor left this great treasure to her, and what it contains, are up to us 
to discover. I hereby forbid any one of you to reveal this matter to anyone outside the SOS 
Brigade, save Tsuruya-san.” 

Haruhi said with her mouth opened wide, revealing a row of snow-white teeth. 

“Tomorrow we shall set out to search for buried treasure! If we continue dilly-dallying, someone 
else might just go and dig it all up, so tomorrow we meet at the usual spot at nine sharp! Let’s 
head for the mountains! And don’t worry, leave the equipment to me.” 



Needless to say, I wasn’t the least bit surprised. Three days ago, I had heard of the entire treasure 
hunt from Asahina-san. Yesterday, Tsuruya-san gave me the map for safe keeping. This 
morning, I had again heard of the treasure hunt from Haruhi. I really have no faith that I’ll be 
able to pull off a shocked face. I guess it can’t be helped then. Placing the empty teacup by my 
lips, I pretended to continue drinking my already finished tea. 

I guess there wasn’t a need for that, for the only person who was shocked. . . 

“E-Eh, t-treasure hunting? T-tomorrow? Up a h-hill? T-then we’ll n-need bentos. . .” 

. . . was Asahina-san. 

Nagato looked up at Haruhi with her book still placed open in her lap. 

“Hmm. . . We might make a great discovery that will further propel the reaches of archaeology. I 
can’t wait!” 

As always, Koizumi was the first one to kiss Haruhi’ s ass. 

If Haruhi wanted looks of extreme shock plastered on everyone’s face, she would have been 
sorely disappointed. Tell you the truth, I don’t think anyone was surprised, not even Asahina-san. 

“That’s the spirit! If we really do find buried treasure, we’ll split everything up into equal 
portions! Of course, Tsuruya-san who has kindly provided us the map will receive a share of our 
treasure too.” 

“That’s great!!” 

Tsuruya-san shouted energetically. 

“If we do find gold or the sort, I suppose I could give you guys 90% of the entire loot. Since my 
great great great great great grand father lived during the Genroku period, the only thing that 
would be able to make his grand children happy even after a few hundred years would probably 
be gold. I’d like to make the best of his good intentions, but unfortunately, I have something to 
attend to tomorrow, so I’ll leave the treasure hunting to you guys.” 

For some reason, Tsuruya-san’ s gaze seemed oddly weird to me at that moment. Just after she 
shifted her gaze from me, Asahina-san looked at me and laughed. It seemed that Tsuruya-san had 
kept her promise after all. The most she would do was probably communicate with Asahina-san 
via body language. There was no way she would tell Asahina-san the truth. I can’t go on 
suspecting Tsuruya-san like this. 

However. . . 


For someone that was unrelated to the SOS Brigade, Tsuruya-san seemed oddly involved, be it 
the baseball tournament or the snow mountain. But that was only because we asked her to. This 



time, though, she had approached Haruhi willingly, as if wanting to keep close ties with us. 

There was no way of knowing what was going on in her head. Don’t tell me this is another 
scheme she cooked up just to make Haruhi happy. But come to think of it, why would she want 
to make Haruhi happy? Just for fun and laughter? 

Let’s first cast my suspicions about Tsuruya-san, who was merrily chewing on the prawn 
crackers laid on the table while making a face that suggested she had successfully pulled a prank, 
aside. 

The one who was making an even weirder expression was Koizumi. Come to think of it, 
Tsuruya-san had visited the club room quite often, but I had no memory of Koizumi meeting her 
there. Tsuruya-san’s wave of a hand could very well equal an order from the “Organization”. To 
be in such close quarters with someone of such high superiority must be troubling, Koizumi. 

And... 

I slowly thought of my shadowy conversation with Koizumi that night before, as I stared right 
into his generic smile. Although I had no idea which parts of his conversation were genuine and 
which parts weren’t, I had a feeling that the house of Tsuruya and the “Organization” were 
closely tied. Heck, Tsuruya-san’s mansion may very well be the secret headquarters of 
Koizumi’s “Organization”. Tsuruya-san and Koizumi may not be working for the same faction, 
but they were definitely tied to each other, this I could tell. What their relationship was, and how 
superior Tsuruya-san was to Koizumi, this I had no clue. 

Tsuruya-san appeared to have no idea of Koizumi, Nagato and Asahina-san’s true identities. 
Although she could tell that the three of them — and Haruhi, for that matter — were not ordinary 
humans, she apparently didn’t poke or pry for more information, at least not openly. I strongly 
believe what Tsuruya-san had said that day before at her mansion, and also bits of what Koizumi 
had said. “Leave the troublesome things to the Organization”, eh? It’s just like Nagato locking 
her synchronization abilities. 

"... Kyon! Are you listening?!” 

A shrill cry pierced my ears, as I found myself staring into the sharp tip of a cane. Glancing up 
the cane, I found Haruhi’ s angry face awaiting me. 

“Listen up; tomorrow be sure to dress plainly! All of you should wear clothes that you don’t 
mind getting dirty. As for Kyon and Koizumi, the both of you can come empty handed. Here’s a 
list of the things we need.” 

Haruhi barked at Asahina-san to fetch a marker. 


Still dressed in her maid outfit, Asahina-san hurriedly fetched a marker and began writing down 
everything Haruhi had said with child-like enthusiasm. 



“First we’ll need two steel shovels, but you can leave this to me. Next, we’ll need bentos. 
Mikuru-chan, you know what to do. Then we’ll require compasses, flash lights and a map. No, 
not the treasure map, but a real, accurate map of Japan. Oh, and if possible, please remember to 
prepare emergency canned food, and a flare launcher too. 

Which mountain are you planning to climb? This isn’t even a mountain, it’s barely a hill. Unless 
we run into some strange phenomena again, like a sudden snowstorm, we should be alright. And 
if by chance we really did run into some strange phenomena, what use would compasses and 
flare launchers be of? The incident that happened during the end of last year suddenly came into 
mind. 

Nagato’s black pupils were fixed directly on Asahina-san’s neat writing. As I confirmed what 
was on the board, I couldn’t help but sigh. 

From what Asahina-san (Michiru) said, there was no need to bring any flare launchers or 
emergency canned food, since we would be back peacefully. Heck, there was no need to climb 
that darned mountain either, since we would come back empty-handed. However, Asahina-san 
had told me to take care, as something important would happen then. I wonder what it was. 

Going up a hill, savoring Asahina-san’s bentos, and going down the hill; Sounds like a picnic to 
me. Oh and there would be an extra “workout” session for Koizumi and me too. 

I knew without a doubt that it would be boring. Maybe it would have been better if I hadn’t 
asked Asahina-san about it. But alas, I had to do it in order to maintain the delicate balance 
between the past and the future, since it was decided a long time ago that the SOS Brigade would 
have an activity this weekend. 

Now going on that stupid treasure hunt just for the sake of maintaining the balance, this I can 
understand. What Asahina-san (Big)’s orders were for, however, this I could not fathom. I was 
sure that Asahina-san (Michiru) didn’t understand them either. Oh whatever. If put in terms of 
loss and gain, we would probably end up with a neutral zero anyway - the loss would balance 
out the gain. 

Wait a second. I think the loss outweighs the gain. 

Trying very hard to keep my emotions in check, I sat at the table without uttering a single word. 

Haruhi, who was by now completely obsessed with mountains, was still busy adding items to the 
already massive list of equipment. The entire white board was so full that Asahina-san was 
having a hard time squeezing in the items Haruhi mentioned. 

“Haruhi, we’re not planning to scale the Himalayas. The most we’d probably need is a GPS 
tracker. It would enable us to communicate with the outer world in terms of danger, and make 
rescue operations swifter by pin-pointing our exact location.” 



Tsuruya-san laughed as she said: “I remember that I used to run around that mountain when I 
was young. It’s perfectly safe -nyoro! There aren’t even grizzly bears there!” 


Haruhi flashed Tsuruya-san a smile as she replied: “Thanks a lot, Tsuruya-san. We’ll be counting 
on you should we run into any trouble.” 

So you weren’t serious about all that stuff after all? 

Haruhi spun the cane in her hand as she said: 

“Everyone, I think that’s all for the preparations. We should definitely work harder for Tsuruya- 
san’s sake, and unearth the great treasure her great-grand-ancestor left for us!” 

For some strange reason, I felt oddly calm. Perhaps it was due to Haruhi’ s melancholy 
disappearing as she once again looked at me with those bright, sparkling eyes. I felt strangely at 
peace with myself, as if all feelings of anxiety had suddenly evaporated. But was that all? Why 
in the world would I feel so relaxed even though I knew I would go on a fruitless treasure hunt 
tomorrow? 

Oh well, I can’t afford to put too much thought into it. As long as it makes me feel better, who 
cares what the reason is. 


Haruhi must have decided on this treasure hunt long before the meeting, as she had borrowed an 
entire lot of books, brochures and even novels about the warring periods. According to Tsuruya- 
san, her ancestor was also filthy rich (I think he was the village chief or a famous salesman). 
Having nothing better to do, we all began speculating as to what the buried treasure could have 
been. 

Actually, our “speculation” was no more than simple discussion and guess work, but before we 
knew it, an hour had already passed, and so today’s emergency meeting came to a close. 

And since we’re on the topic of speculations, Haruhi’ s speculations were “If it were really some 
old Genroku period coins, I would be bored beyond belief! Let’s all hope it’s something 
interesting!” and that kind of mumbo-jumbo. 

When Nagato shut her book tight, all of us knew that it was time for today’s activities to come to 
a close. All of us brigade members, together with Tsuruya-san, then proceeded to make our way 
back home. As we walked down the hill, I tried valiantly to start a conversation with Tsuruya- 
san, but to no avail. Haruhi and Tsuruya-san were both walking up front, as they energetically 
discussed about the mountain. Shortly behind them was Asahina-san, followed by the silent 
Nagato, before ending with me and Koizumi at the back. I had wanted to ask Tsuruya-san about 
how Asahina-san (Michiru) was doing, but I didn’t want Haruhi to overhear it. 



Ah, forget it. I’ll have to call Asahina-san later anyway. And since none of those three letters 
could be conveyed fully through speech, it was only logical that I pay her a visit, seeing that one 
of those letters required us to do a little preparation. Thinking about this, I felt as if acid had 
burned a large hole through my wallet. It always seemed that there was only cash flowing out; 
none ever flowed in. 

I was really impressed with Tsuruya-san. Her ability to strike up conversations with Haruhi and 
Asahina-san, while not spilling the beans about how an exact double was sitting right in her 
house, was just remarkable. I guess that’s to be expected of Tsuruya-san. So that’s what it’s like 
to be a sempai, huh. 

As Nagato’s apartment loomed near, I knew that it was time to say goodbye, seeing that this was 
the regular spot where SOS Brigade members parted. 

“See you guys tomorrow! The last one to arrive will be punished!” 

Waving furiously, Haruhi said her goodbyes, as each of us headed in our separate directions. 
Now all that was left was to fake going home. 

I walked until I was far beyond anyone’s sight before I took out my cell phone. Just to be safe, I 
hid in one of those dark alleys behind houses as I punched in Tsuruya-san’ s residence number. 

After notifying the maid of my name, Asahina-san was put on the line shortly after. 

“Hello, Kyon-kun? It’s me.” 

I thought of Asahina-san’ s figure as she sat alone in Tsuruya-san’ s large residence. 

“I got more of those things again. You know, the letters?” 

“Umm, yeah. . . What are we supposed to do this time. . .?” 

From the way she ended her sentence, I could tell that she was very nervous. 

“Well, about that, I thought that maybe it would be better if you and I had a little chat about it, 
since it states that I’ll be free for today and tomorrow. I’m going to be really busy after that, 
though.” 

“Oh. . . It’s alright, I understand. . .” 

So what do I do next? 


“There’s another city- wide search on Saturday and Sunday. If memory serves me right, you were 
acting pretty strange then, Kyon-kun...” 



I’ll just pretend I didn’t hear that. I’ll probably be really tired after tomorrow, so I don’t think I’ll 
have enough energy remaining to force myself to act weird. 

“We’ll talk about this later. I’ll head over to your place right now. Tsuruya-san should be home 
any time now.” 

After that, I hung up, as I quickened my pace to Tsuruya-san’s residence, ushered on by the 
piercing cold winter wind. 


The person to answer the doorbell today was yet again Tsuruya-san. She was still clad in her 
sailor uniform, apparently not even bothered to change as she reached home. 

“I had a feeling you would come.” 

Tsuruya-san said as she waved at me while opening the door, revealing a large grin on her face. 

“What are you planning to do? She can’t be staring at my house’s ceiling forever you know.” 

Well, I know it sounds weird, but please bear with it for a few more days. Asahina-san should be 
able to go back to where she came from after that. 

“Oh don’t get me wrong. I’m fine with having her in my house. She’s just so cute! Compared to 
the Mikuru in school, she’s so much cuter! Don’t you think so? She’s so cute that I want to hug 
her as I sleep -nyoro.” 

Don’t tell me Tsuruya-san already did that. Oh, how I admire her! 

“That’s not all. Michiru’s so cute that you just want to bathe together with her. But whenever I 
say so, all she does is make a pained expression and say ‘I don’t think that’s a good idea. . . ’ That 
just makes her even cuter than usual! Although you kinda sympathize with her afterwards. But I 
guess that’s nothing to worry about.” 

Tsuruya-san then brought me to the koya. Just like I expected, Asahina-san was inside. What I 
didn’t expect, though, was her wearing a woven kimono while kneeling down on the Tatami 
mats. 


“Kyon-kun...” 


Upon seeing me, Asahina-san revealed a relieved expression. Now that’s a pretty cute expression 
too. As she got up and bowed towards me, I felt that there was nothing more beautiful than that 
scene in the entire world. 



As I tried my best to wrench my eyes away from that sight and close the door behind me, I 
suddenly heard Tsuruya-san’s evil monomaniacal laughter ring out from behind. From her looks, 
I knew that she had lots of questions to ask me. So. . . 

“Tsuruya-san, I’m sorry, but could you give the two of us a moment, please? A little while will 
do.” 

“Hmm. . . ?” 

Tsuruya-san said as she peered over my shoulders at Asahina-san. 

“The both of you? Alone? Together? In such a small space? Hohoho, I’m fine with that -nyoro.” 

Upon hearing Tsuruya-san’s words, Asahina-san’s face blushed bright red. Apparently this was 
the effect Tsuruya-san was waiting for, as she patted my shoulders and said: 

“Well then, I guess I’ll go and change then. Fufufu, have fun chatting -nyoro.” 

And with that, Tsuruya-san strode elegantly towards the main house, leaving the both of us 
behind. After I had confirmed that she had indeed left, I plopped down on the floor, my body 
feeling as stiff as the very mats I was sitting on. Come on now, relax. 

Now’s not the time to think of that. For now, let’s just concentrate on what we came here for. 

“These are the letters I mentioned earlier on the phone. I just received them this morning.” 

I said as I took out the letters #3 and #4. 1 wouldn’t show her #6 for the time being, since I was 
the only recipient mentioned in the letter. I’m guessing that #6 is the last letter. There probably 
wouldn’t be any other letters in the future. Oh and as for #5, let’s just forget about that for the 
moment. 

This is what #3 had to say: 

“Two days later (Saturday), please head to the footbridge on ** street in ** district before dusk 
and face south. You should see some common stock growing there. Please pick up the object 
beneath it and send it to the following address anonymously. Just so you know, that object is a 
mini transmitter.” 

There was a separate paper attached, and on it was an address far away. There was also a 
drawing of what appeared to be the transmitter in question. By looking at the drawing alone, I 
wondered exactly what kind of transmitter this was. It didn’t look like something a normal 
human would draw. 


Now for #4: 



“Near the stream with the cherry blossom trees, you should recall a very familiar bench. Go there 
before 10.45 am on Sunday. Bring along a small turtle with you. Before 10.50 am, throw the 
aforementioned turtle into the lake. The turtle’s species doesn’t matter, but smaller ones are 
preferred.” 

There was yet another paper attached with this letter too. This time, there was a picture of a cute 
little turtle blowing bubbles while waving towards me. On it were the words “Please take good 
care of me~”. The entire picture was done in a cartoonish style. 

There was another thing #3 and #4 had in common: Both of them shared a same postscript. P/S: 
Remember to bring Asahina Michiru with you, and make sure it’s only the two of you. Finally, 
there was the line of orders only Asahina-san could understand. 

Asahina-san studied both letters carefully. After finishing the second page of #4, she sighed. 

“I don’t understand. . . Why turtles?” 

What the heck was throwing a turtle into a stream in such cold weather supposed to mean? 
Whoever understood that must not be normal. The only thing that I knew was the bench, the one 
that Asahina-san had confessed to me about being a time traveler. 

“But, we’ve got no choice. . .” 

Asahina-san said as she studied the contents carefully again, before raising her head in 
determination. 

“We don’t know what’s going on now, but there has to be a reason we’ve been asked to do this. 
If we don’t do it...” 

For a moment, I detected a glimpse of sadness in Asahina-san’s eyes. 

I could guess what came after “If we don’t do it. . .” That’s right, if we don’t do it, what purpose 
would sending Asahina-san back in time serve? 

I wanted to hug Asahina-san tightly and tell her everything was alright, but in the end I didn’t do 
it. One of the reasons was due to my conscience. Another was due to Tsuruya-san’s needle-like 
stares suddenly popping out in my mind. 

“Erm, you know, Asahina-san. . .” I mumbled, trying to drive away all evil intent from my mind. 

“There’s another city- wide search this Saturday and Sunday right? If so, how am I supposed to 
follow these orders?” 


Before dusk, huh. What a miserably fuzzy time. No one in the SOS Brigade was weird enough to 
mention such a time. How was I supposed to excuse myself? 



“So should I find an excuse not to go?” 


“No, Kyon-kun. You were present that day too.” 

Asahina-san said as she folded away the very important letter. 

“As usual, we were separated into two teams by drawing lots. I just remembered. . . Nagato-san, 
Suzumiya-san and I were paired together on Saturday morning and Kyon-kun with Koizumi-kun, 
while Suzumiya-san, Koizumi-kun and I were paired together during Saturday afternoon and 
Kyon-kun with Nagato-san. . .” 

Asahina-san said as she nodded her head gently, as if confirming her memories. 

“During Sunday morning, Suzumiya-san, Koizumi-san and I were once again paired up, while 
Kyon-kun was again paired with Nagato-san. Since we each went our separate ways before noon, 
there wouldn’t be a second draw. . . Eh?” 

Asahina-san stopped abruptly through her speech, as if sharing the same thoughts as I did. 

It was too perfect to be called a coincidence. What was the possibility of that happening anyway? 

If what Asahina-san said was true, then I would be paired together with Nagato twice. Since we 
had five members, two of us were destined to be paired together in a two-people group. I needed 
to be paired in one of those two-people groups at least twice in three tries. I’m not going to start 
calculating the probability of that happening, but even so, I knew that it was pretty low. 

Speaking of which, I was sure that Nagato knew a little about the situation. If it’s drawing lots, 
I’m sure it would be no big deal for Nagato. All I have to do is ask her while she places her order 
at the cafe. 

“So, what should we do?” 

Asahina-san said as she revealed a face that severely lacked confidence. 

But if things don’t go according to what Asahina-san said, then I would be in a bigger mess than 
I was currently in now. Was it really okay to ask Nagato to help me? Or rather, was it really 
necessary? According to Asahina-san’s memories, a time traveler that came from one week into 
the future, I would be paired in a two-person group all three times. Would it be possible for 
things to turn up different than what she said? Or would everything happen naturally? Even if I 
just sat back and relaxed, would I still be paired together with Nagato in a two-person group? Or 
did that happen because I requested for it to happen? 

Gah, what am I worrying about. Asahina-san probably had no way of knowing if my future self 
had requested help from Nagato before, so. . . 



“We’ll go ask Nagato for help.” I said. “Even though it’s not fair asking for her assistance while 
concealing something behind our backs, we have no choice. The slightest mistake may result in 
large consequences, so it’s better to be on the safe side. I’m sure Nagato understands.” 

“That’s what I had in mind too.” 

Asahina-san said while agreeing readily. 

“During the city-wide patrol, Kyon-kun, you had a weird expression on your face. I think I now 
know why. You must have been thinking about the drawing of the lots.” 

What did “weird” refer to anyway? What expression should I wear then? 

“Erm. . . You know. . . Weird as in. . . Weird.” 

Asahina-san answer still left me in the dark, but I don’t blame her. How are you going to 
describe “what type of weird” anyway? 

“I’m sorry; I have no idea how to explain it to you. . .” 

There’s no need to apologize, Asahina-san. Besides, this is a pretty trivial matter. 

“But... Oh wait, I just remembered something. During the Sunday search, while Suzumiya-san, 
Koizumi-kun and I were at the book store. . .” 

Whatever Asahina-san had to say seemed pretty important, as she placed her fingers on her 
forehead, trying her best to recall the incident. 

“Suzumiya-san received a prank call.” 

Who called her? 

“Kyon-kun, you did.” 

I did? During desperate times like this, my future self still had the time to prank call Haruhi? 

“Ah, Suzumiya-san said something like, ‘That Kyon, calling me all of a sudden just to tell me a 
lame joke!’ after she hung up, at around 11 am.” 

So I did another weird thing, eh. That is to say after I chucked a poor little turtle into the stream, 
I would prank call Haruhi and tell her some lousy joke. 

“What did the joke sound like? Did Haruhi say anything?” 

“She didn’t say anything about it, but as we gathered for lunch, you apologized to her about it, 
Kyon-kun.” 



So I go from performing weird acts to betraying my own moral code, eh? Why in the world 
would I apologize to Haruhi? 

“Kyon-kun, you said ‘I’m sorry for cracking such a lame joke.”’ 

This is getting even weirder. Bowing my head, apologizing so sincerely to Haruhi. . . What could 
possibly make that happen? 

When I tried to press for further information, all Asahina-san did was shake her head. It appeared 
that Haruhi didn’t continue pressing the matter anymore, as we then proceeded to chat about 
other events. 

I give up. Knowing that I would commit such unthinkable acts in the future was bad enough, but 
not knowing why I had to do them was even worse. Can someone please piece together the 
pieces of this jigsaw puzzle and tell me what is going on? 

“Now about that turtle. . .” 

I said as I held letter #4. 

“During a time like this, it’s practically impossible to find a turtle crawling around on the road or 
something. How are we supposed to find one?” 

I didn’t have the heart to dig up a hibernating turtle from beneath the ground. I would probably 
have enough digging to do tomorrow. Or did it so happen that we stumbled upon a hibernating 
turtle instead of buried treasure? 

“No. We didn’t find anything that day, be it treasure or turtles.” 

So that is to say our merry treasure hunt tomorrow would turn out to be nothing more than a 
hike, eh. 

“We have no other choice but to purchase one.” 

I suddenly recalled that there was a pet store in the local supermarket nearby. It was the same pet 
shop I would frequent to buy Shamisen’s food. I remember seeing turtles that were meant to be 
used for experiments being sold in there before. Why not purchase one on my way home? But 
wait, there was no way I could bring a turtle together with me while the SOS Brigade gathers, 
could I? Oh well, guess that can’t be helped. I’ll just have to leave it in Asahina-san’s care then. 

Thinking of the many preparations I would have to do over this weekend, I suddenly felt as if my 
weekend had vanished into thin air. 


After that, Asahina-san and I discussed where and when we should meet on Saturday and 
Sunday. After all of our basic preparations were complete, I slowly got up. 



Asahina-san walked me to the door, which, upon opening, revealed a plain-clothed Tsuruya-san 
standing outside in the cold waiting for us. 

“Ara, ara, that little moment sure was long! Let’s not mince words, shall we? Spit it out, Kyon- 
kun, did you do anything in there?” 

Tsuruya-san said as she laughed madly. She couldn’t have peeped through the doors, could she? 
It’s a good thing she didn’t continue to press on any further. Hiding things from women is just 
not my specialty. 

I pretended to smile as I quickly made my leave. Asahina-san’ s beet red face continued to remain 
in my mind, even after the Tsuruya Residence had long disappeared from my sight. 

(End of Chapter 3) 


Chapter 4 

The second morning, I was awakened by my little sister who came to shut off my alarm. 

"It's noisy, isn't it Shami?" 

My sister seized a curled-up Shamisen, hugging him close, and then put that pile of fur on my 
nose, asking, 

"It's breakfast — . Are you gonna eat~?" 

This voice, which belongs to a tone-deaf person who constantly practices singing in order to get 
good at it, irritated my brain more than the alarm did. 

"I'm eating." 

I brushed away the claws my sister was playing with and picked myself up. Then I lifted 
Shamisen from my sister's wrist and shifted him down off my bed. Being the bothersome cat he 
is, he 'hmphed' and jumped right back onto my bed. 

So then I changed, my sister standing off to the side pinching Shamisen's furry cheeks. He 
immediately resisted and started to scamper away with a 'pata pata', only to have two hands latch 
onto his tail. So he let out a complaining 'gnnyaa!' and promptly escaped by running out of my 
room, my sister in pursuit. Since they started this noise first thing in the morning, I was awake in 
no time at all. 


As I walked out of my room and started to wash my face, I saw my sister crooning 'Kitty scarf-' 
while draping Shamisen on the back of her neck. Shamisen clung to my sister's woolen sweater, 
trying to defy her as best he could. Accordingly, I decided to calmly ignore them. 

I brushed my teeth while looking at my oh-so-lively face in the mirror and wondering what day 
today was, all the while aimlessly thinking about random stuff, like the cold wind outside. The 
freezing gales outside were sort of like omens. I guessed spring was almost here. If possible, I’d 
like to be a freshman for a while longer, in the year where nobody knows me yet — not if it 
involves repeating a year, though. Also, I hoped the weather won’t get colder. I don’t mind 
digging for treasure, or wandering around the city, but I did want it to become warmer. It’s 
February already. February. 

But, if someone had told Haruhi about this activity any other month, we would have had to do it 
then. Good thing nobody told Haruhi about going diving for sunken treasure or something. Yes, 
keep it like this. 

After eating breakfast, I realized that I would be climbing up that mountain again, so I put on my 
jacket, then I walked to the station. I didn’t ride my bike, since we’re going to the Tsuruya 
family’s mountain. It's just a bus ride, and obviously meeting at the mountain itself would have 
allowed us to get started earlier. This method of gathering one by one is obviously pointless, as 
proven by experience. 

One side of my head was taking a bath in something that seemed like the North Wind in all its 
glory doing battle with the sun, so I hid my face in my scarf and walked forwards. I didn’t walk 
especially fast, but this wasn’t because I had lots of time until the deadline, but because even if 
I’m on time, I’m always the last one to arrive. It usually goes like that. The only time I’ve ever 
been the person waiting for the others was that one time. 

So, when I finally got to the train station, it was already 5 before 9. The other SOS members had 
assembled already, and were all staring at me. 

Haruhi ’s face looked like she was going to pass Divine Judgment on me. 

“Why are you always late ! I had hoped that when I got here, everybody would be gathered and 
waiting for me. Don’t you feel ashamed for making the Brigade leader wait?” 

One person who understands my pain is obviously not you. You always say something about the 
other three people arriving before you, leaving me as the only one to arrive after. Some comment 
along the lines of me not having to pay for everyone’s drinks is just because you said I didn’t 
have to. So, then you’d say you wish I would reflect on this. 

“What are you talking about. Is the late person not you?” 

Haruhi happily looked at me. 


“What is it, Kyon, you look like something’s troubling you. What’s wrong?” 



Nothing’s wrong. It’s just that this holiday finally came, but it’s a freezing day, and I’m irritated 
because I have to spend this cold day digging up treasure that doesn’t even exist. 

“Look more alive. Did Shamisen get sick again?” 


“No-pe.” 


I pulled back my neck and shook it. 

“I’m just a little cold.” 

Heh-heh. The ardent Haruhi shook her hands, and said, 

“At times like this, you have to adapt to the environment, both mind and body have to change. 
Yes, climbing a mountain in the middle of a cold winter is very much the thing to do! The reason 
we’re doing this is simple, right?” 

I’m not a plastic model, how the hell do I change that easily. I’m not somebody with an ‘on-off’ 
switch, something Haruhi with her ‘one-season-all-year-ness’ cannot understand. 

While Haruhi and I had our normal morning banter, the other three people stood there like an 
audience. 

Koizumi, Asahina-san and Nagato’s appearances were casual, basic and natural, respectively. 
Nagato’s natural outfit is the uniform and the short jacket. There’s no need to ask her why she’s 
wearing that for mountaineering. If I brought Nagato to Tsuruya-san’s house and left her there, 
Tsuruya-san would happily give Nagato clothes Tsuruya-san wore a long time ago. I have to try 
that next time. 

It felt like Koizumi’s some model who walked out of a commercial. He's wearing a stylish winter 
outfit, standing there with a slight smile. He looks exactly like a mannequin in the window of a 
store in the mall. If you ignore the two shovels that he should’ve left at a work site. 

[T/L note : Undecipherable sentence; will attempt later] I think that, in all this time, I’ve never 
seen Asahina-san in the same outfit twice. 

“Lunchboxes, I prepared them.” 

Is it because you were looking forward to going, Asahina-san, with your 100% sincere smile and 
the two blue baskets you’re carrying? Can I pretend I only came here today to eat that? 

Also, this happy Asahina-san was commanded by me and kicked back in time, I still can’t 
believe it. Is that Asahina-san telling the truth? 


“Is something the matter?” 



Asahina-san artlessly lifted her head. 


“No, no,” I calmly said. “I was just thinking that the lunchboxes were something to look forward 
to.” 

“Don’t look forward to it that much. I don’t know if I made them well or not ” 

Asahina-san’s face is just cute when she’s blushing. The only person who can move my heart is 
her. 

“The lunchboxes can’t be bad.” 

Haruhi suddenly came into my field of vision. 

“You, do you actually understand why you’re here today? It’s not to play, you know. Digging for 
treasure, digging for treasure! If you don’t work hard, you don’t get a lunch break!” 

As she said this, Haruhi was the cold wind that fought against the sun, and won. I'll put away my 
‘child-that-came-out-to-play’ smile, I’ll use it later if I remember to, is what I wanted to say, but 
I chose not to. 

Come to think of it, this is Haruhi’s spirit-filled face. Entering the month of February, I had been 
lulled by her deceptive calm. I don’t know why I feel like I was deceived. 


On this unusual day, I didn’t have to take everyone to a cafe. But it’s not never again inviting 
them to a cafe, just not today. Next time we have a meeting, it doesn’t matter what time I get 
there, I’ll be paying for it all. As Haruhi said this, she walked towards the intersection in front of 
the bus stop. Maybe she was thinking, if she didn’t get there fast enough, and spent too much 
time somewhere else, somebody would beat her to the treasure. 

Anyways, she just wants to get to the mountain. I took the shovel she handed me, and we all got 
on the bus heading in the general direction of the mountain. I stood beside Koizumi, who had 
grabbed a hand-hold. Because we were both holding shovels, we stood out a lot, but whatever. It 
isn’t too bad, the bus going towards the mountain didn’t have too many passengers. That's the 
only thing I could rejoice about. 

After being on the bus for about 30 minutes, at Haruhi's prompting we got off. The other station 
had been filled and congested; in contrast, this station is very natural and peaceful. It didn’t seem 
like we were in the same city. Actually, because of school-planned events during my elementary 
and junior high years, I am very familiar with this region. If we walked north from here, this 
would become a real mountain hike. It’s a good thing Tsuruya-san’s mountain is lower than that 
one. I'm surprised that such a mountain is the private property of the Tsuruya family. I’d never 
climbed this one before, not even on school excursions. 



“It’ll be fun to climb up from here.” 


Haruhi studied the map and led the way. I don’t actually know if this is called Mt. Tsuruya or 
not. Whatever, we looked up at the summit of Mt. Tsuruya while blowing white clouds out of 
our mouths. 

This time the climb wasn’t quite the same as two days ago when I went up this mountain 
together with Asahina-san. That time we came from the opposite side of the mountain from 
where we are now. If I were to say which side is shorter, I think the way Asahina-san and I went 
is actually more direct. Today, the path from the bottom of the hill, the place Haruhi chose, to the 
summit is winding back and forth. I see, so if we go this way, it should be easier to climb up. 

Yes ? 

“Kyon! It’s not a good time to be staring off into space, walk faster, faster!” 

After hearing Haruhi’s yell, my legs started walking forwards. I’m getting the feeling like I’m 
being pushed into doing this. Therefore, I already don’t want to do any work. 

“I got it.” 

I balanced the shovel on my shoulder and caught up to them on the path. Not only Haruhi, 
bouncing around like a wild rabbit, but Asahina-san also looks like an elementary student on a 
nature hike. Nagato’s still the same as usual, not much change there. And looking at Koizumi’s 
forced smile, I found myself wondering how many of us actually want to go treasure digging. I 
obviously have no wish to, since there is no reason I should work. Asahina-san (Michiru) has 
already put on my schedule that nothing will be found. The only person who wants to find 
treasure is Haruhi, anyway. To put it concisely, there might be a chance that we could find 
treasure, but Asahina-san wouldn’t, or couldn’t, lie. The hidden treasure which the Tsuruya 
family has passed on for generation after generation will never be found, this is the truth. 

“What’s wrong?” 

Koizumi walked beside me, a frank smile plastered across his face. 

“Your expression makes it seem like you already know that what we’re doing is just a waste of 
energy.” 

I didn’t say anything, since I have nothing to say to him. 

Koizumi, aren’t you also showing a face that says that you already know what’s going to 
happen? Your face says that it doesn’t matter if we dig up something or not, and you’ve already 
made up your mind to treat this like a chore. 

I think Asahina-san already knows there’s another her in this time. If she really does know, I 
should go talk to her about it. Did I come here just to have that chat with her? That would be 
convenient. I’ve already got Tsuruya-san to help me, I don’t need you to help with this anymore, 



Koizumi. So, I don’t think I’ll tell him anything. Being decisive is useless if you don't get up and 
do it. The action is more important, and that leaves room for impulsive behavior too. 


And about me not answering him, I wonder what Koizumi's thinking. He lifted the shovel just a 
little bit, the front of the shovel pointing forwards. His smile showed he’s either taking treasure 
digging very lightly or very [T/L note : Blonde moment.] 

Meh, the Koizumi now is no different from the normal Koizumi. I honestly don’t know what I’m 
worrying about. Anyway, we came here today to climb the mountain. 

Haruhi pushed aside the weeds and advanced upwards. 

“First, we go to the top. If it were me burying treasure, I would put it in a place so it can be found 
easily. Tsuruya-san’s ancestors are also human beings, so they must’ve put it in the most obvious 
place as well." 

If the first thing that makes hidden treasure hidden treasure is the fact that it’s hidden in an easy 
to find place, you might as well not hide it at all. It doesn’t matter what’s logical, we just do what 
Haruhi wants us to. Because she is the leader of the SOS Brigade. She even commands Aliens, 
Time Travelers and Espers. We have to listen to her, because she is our head. 


I wanted to reach out and pat the heavily breathing, very tired Asahina-san’s back, but because 
Haruhi had already pulled ahead, there was no chance for me to do so, and we kept climbing, just 
like this. After about thirty minutes, we reached the summit. Oddly, the mountain path seems 
like it was made so as not to tire the hikers. If we weren’t walking on a slow, ambling path, we 
would’ve actually climbed a mountain. 

Since walking up that path is only slightly more tiring than walking on flat ground, I didn’t feel 
especially tired. Maybe because when I walk to school every day, I have to climb up and down 
that huge hill, and the strength of my legs naturally increased. The problem is, what we’re going 
to do next will tire me out. 

That would be the treasure digging part, and now it’s up to Haruhi to choose a spot. 

“Is it not in this area?” 

In a nutshell, wherever Haruhi pointed, we would have to dig a hole. Wouldn’t this be too easy a 
spot if you were going to bury money or treasure? Even though I can’t say that I actually know 
where it is, but even after digging two meters, all the shovels manage to dig up is hard soil and 
small rocks. The digging must be done by the males, and because of that, the only people digging 
are Koizumi and me. The three girls seem like they’ve come for a picnic, only the cheers of 
Asahina-san lend me a little comfort. 



Haruhi just casually pointed again, “this time, here.” Nagato’s just like a stone Buddha, the kind 
that would tell me exactly where the treasure was if I prayed to it a bit. But assuming she really 
could do that, it would be very peculiar to manage to dig up buried treasure on the first try. So I, 
with my little bit of self-respect, managed to refrain from worshipping Nagato. 

Trying to find anything is troublesome from the beginning. Also, the reality-ignoring Haruhi, 
who is just relying on her decision making skills and working oh-so-hard, doesn’t she hold any 
suspicion that the treasure won’t be found? The only people who have a problem with this thing 
would be me and Koizumi, and since Koizumi’ s happy face looks like it's carved of wood, so in 
the end, the only one feeling like a laborer is me. 

I wanted to get Taniguchi and Kunikida to come and help me, but Haruhi said no. 

“Ii? What we’re going to look for is treasure, treasure! The people who dig it up all have to get a 
share. Because I’m a fair Brigade leader, I will split it evenly among the people who helped. If 
they come, I'll have to divide it into seven portions, I don’t want to do that for a totally stupid 
reason!” 

If what we dug up was gold coins from the Genroku era then I would agree. But, this treasure 
map came from Tsuruya-san’s house. Even if you say that Tsuruya-san’s family was here back in 
ancient peaceful times and has continued on to now, if we look at the changes in time, there 
must’ve been some difficult times. The treasure the ancestors left, wouldn’t it be a good time to 
use it then? This treasure map must’ve been followed by some Tsuruya leader way back when, 
or maybe they just wanted to pull a prank on their descendants. Like spending lots of energy 
digging up this treasure, only to find a slip of paper with ‘Try again.’ on it. I think the chance of 
this happening is quite big, this seems like just the type of thing that Tsuruya-san’s ancestors 
would do. Tsuruya-san herself said that. So that’s why she gave the map so casually to Haruhi. 
Tsuruya-san must’ve known that the leader of the Tsuruya house would do something of the sort. 
Also, using her imagination, she can see that they would laugh until their stomachs hurt if 
someone in the future actually tried to dig it up. This map is something that gets people excited 
at first, and in the end it's just a joke that everyone can laugh at. What a-. 

Is what I wanted to tell everybody, but I had to keep it to myself and silently dig up dirt 

using the shovel. 


Because it’s only a small hill, the area at the top of the hill naturally isn’t very big. Digging here 
and there up on the summit is just making burrows, basically. According to Haruhi, the only 
people supposed to be physically doing anything are me and Koizumi. Unlike the pretending-to- 
be-a-mole-while-smiling Koizumi, I keep feeling more and more mistreated. The holes we dig 
can be very dangerous if we don’t take care where we’re digging. So after digging it up, we have 
to put all the dirt back. Because of this pointless gesture, we have lots more work to do. I’m 
getting this feeling of being put into a work camp. 


“Quit talking and dig faster.” 



Haruhi sits at the side with her legs crossed, looking like the head commander of a great battle 
with her invincible smile as she directed us. The slight figure sitting beside Haruhi is Nagato; 
she's currently sitting there reading a book. Asahina-san, sitting on the left, huddles close to 
Haruhi to keep warm. 

“Kyon, isn’t it good that you get to do that? Since you’re sweating, you’ll feel warm. Look, the 
place where I’m sitting is very cold, and if you don’t dig up that treasure soon, I’ll be frozen 
solid. Is the way you’re digging wrong or something?” 

I’m digging exactly where you tell me to dig. My body’s movement..? >.< [T/L note: Ugh.] 

For some reason, Asahina-san, clinging to Haruhi’ s arm, looks a little anxious. 

“Umm should I come and help?” 

“No need,” 

Haruhi replied very casually. 

“This is good for Kyon. It’s his training for future careers in carpentry and other work. If he has 
no experience, it will be very tiring later on.” 

I don’t want to hear any life lessons from someone my own age. 

“Sometime later, you’ll reflect and will think about how great this experience was. That’s the 
way it is. People should do a bit of everything while they can.” 

Then you come do it. 

“Oy, Haruhi,” 

I stopped digging and mopped my brow. 

“Even if the way I dig is correct, we won’t find anything anyways. You can’t be planning to 
level this mountain, and we’re still not sure if the treasure exists.” 

“What, after all this and you still don’t get it. We haven’t found out if it’s here yet.” 

“We haven’t found it, therefore, we don’t know if it’s here or not. We should find out if that 
treasure exists first, then dig if it does.” 

Haruhi’ s jaw dropped in shock, but her eyes were bright and laughing. 

“Isn’t this evidence?” 


In her hand was the Tsuruya family’s handed down map. 



“It says something’s buried up here, so something must be here. I trust Tsuruya-san’s ancestors. 
So there’s treasure here, there’s got to be!” 


Even though she just made up a random, reasonless excuse, Haruhi still hadn’t changed her 
confident expression. 

“But, I kind of agree.” 

As if she were thinking of something, Haruhi tapped her forehead. 

“Since they thought burying it on the top was too reckless, and climbing up is too troublesome, 
it’s probably a little bit lower than here. Un, I also wanted it to be in a more exciting place.” 

Haruhi let go of Asahina-san’s hand and fixed up her shoes. 

“I'll start looking for other places something could be buried. Oh, and Kyon, go dig there for a 
sec.” 

After telling me the newest location of digging, Haruhi walked towards the huge forest. She 
walked forwards where there was no path, exactly opposite from the way we came up, her shoes 
making a ????sound. 

I silently gazed after the departing Haruhi. If my sense of direction isn’t wrong, if you go down 
that way, a flat kind of area will appear about mid-mountain. Then, push over that gourd-shaped 
rock. It will seem to be telling us to dig there, sort of like a giant marker. 


Even though I could’ve done as Haruhi asked and dug a hole, I chose to throw down the shovel 
and let Koizumi have the job of filling in the hole, opting to sit on the mat. 

“Here...” 

Asahina-san poured the hot tea into a paper cup and gave it to me. This is a better source of 
nutrition than anything else anyone can give me. It’s very sweet; this sweetness is just like 
Asahina-san herself. 

The mannered Asahina-san held onto the thermos, and she watched me finish the brown-ish 
liquid with a smile on her face. 

“Fufu, it’s a good day today. The scenery’s so beautiful ” 

We looked into the distance as though nothing is happening around us. Facing south, we looked 
from the top of the mountain down. In the distance, I could just barely see the street by the hill 
where I lived, and beyond that, the sea. 



Hyuu~, the wind started to blow. Asahina-san’s body started to tremble. 

“The faster spring comes, the better. February’s so cold.” 

I sense a kind of loneliness from Asahina-san, even though she smiled and looked around at the 
lovely scenery on the top of the hill. 

“If the flowers bloom, this will be a calming, comfortable place.” 

Then, let’s come again some other time. Next time to view the flowers. After about two months, 
the cold air will disappear, when the warm air comes in, then we come. 

“Ah, that, that’s good. Flower viewing. I’ve always wanted to.” 

Asahina-san hugged her knees and changed the way she was sitting. 

“April, I guess. I’ll already be a third-year when that time comes.” 

Probably. I’ll hopefully be a second year too. If Asahina-san passed, she would be a third-year 
student. Unless she fails. 

“Eh, no problem.” 

Even though she said this, it seemed like she was saying it while sighing. 

“But, it would be good if I could be a second-year again. I slightly think that. I want to be 
classmates with Kyon and everybody. As of now, there’s only me who's a year higher than 
everyone, but I don’t feel like an upperclassman at all ” 

Asahina-san caring about something like this is very normal. A childish face, not very tall, yet 
beautiful, blossoming, charming young girls will idolize her. The one that got her to join on the 
basis of this unreasonable thing was Haruhi, one you cannot argue with and win. If she ever 
thought about wanting Asahina-san to be in the same grade as us, she herself couldn’t care less if 
it took failing a grade or going back a grade. She'd say something like, it’s okay, you just need to 
be the SOS Brigade’s amazing maid. 

“Ufu. Thanks.” 

Maybe because she’s worrying since Nagato sitting near her, Asahina-san softly said. 

“It’d be good if we can also do stuff next year ” 

Just as I was about to tell her about the other Asahina-san, Haruhi returned, breaking through 
branches and undergrowth recklessly. 


“What, you’re resting already?” 



I haven’t for about two hours, I think. 

“Fufun, whatever. I’m starting to get hungry too.” 

Haruhi looked very happy as she bounced back. 

“Mikuru-chan, let’s eat.” 

“Ah, yes, yes.” 

The form of Asahina-san opening the basket looks very godly. She took out, one by one, 
handmade sandwiches, triangular onigiri, and several other simple dishes. To me, this is the real 
treasure, saying I came here today just to eat this isn’t really lying. 


Nagato silently closed her book, and stared at Asahina-san’ s hand. Koizumi, since he had 
finished filling in the hole, walked over after sticking the shovel in the soft dirt. 

“It looks really good.” 

I gently said what I thought before I started. 

“Of course it’ll be good. Because you’re eating it after exercise.” 

Haruhi randomly decided another thing for me. She then poured hot tea into her cup. When she 
was done, she lifted the thermos into the air. 

“Well, I hope we can find some treasure, everyone can have a bit.” 

Looking at this scene here, it seems like we’re on a picnic. If you ignore the dirt on me and 
Koizumi, that is. 

Even Haruhi, putting Nori in her mouth while looking sideways, has forgotten that we came here 
today to look for treasure, as she eats the lunch Asahina-san made. Although Koizumi and I 
haven’t dug anything up yet, even if we use the shovels and randomly dig, it wouldn’t be 
considered weird. Today, Haruhi seems almost too happy. It seems as though the whole purpose 
of coming here today was to eat lunch with everybody. 

Like Asahina-san’ s (Big) notes from the future, Haruhi’ s actions lately have been confusing me 
quite a bit. Suddenly going into a melancholic stage, and then suddenly wanting to scatter those 
beans, making me think she was a bit more mature now, at least. But then she used that treasure 
map to cause this 


Well, is it bad if it keeps going like this? If we compare this with the time I got put into the 
Avatars’ closed space, or when it was clearly Autumn but the cherry blossoms had appeared and 



were filling in the classroom, this place is only as difficult as having to choose to return home by 
either the light of the moon or the Andromeda galaxy. It's different, more like getting every 
constellation known to man or riding on the galaxy railroad to places no one has ever gone 
before. It's different. Though I have already experienced the autumn anomaly of Closed Space. 

Five people eating a picnic together’s actually quite fun. The unstopping, continuously eating 
Nagato made me feel right at home. She’s still the same as when I first met her. And with this, 
Haruhi’s energy is more than enough and Koizumi’s the same as he always is. If I say Asahina- 
san’s the same as usual, it’s not wrong, but there’s another little Asahina-san living at Tsuruya- 
san’s house right now, just like a little lost cat. As soon as I think of this, I lose my easiness. 

“Hey, Kyon. If we find any treasure, what do you plan on doing with it?” 

Asked Haruhi after she took a bite out of a pork sandwich. This is the type of thing I frequently 
daydream about, so I already have an answer. 

“I would change it immediately to cash and go buy a new game system. And with the leftover 
money, I would buy new video games. Then, if I still had some, I would go to the bookstore my 
mother took me to a couple of years ago, and buy every manga I couldn’t afford before. I would 
then proceed to save the rest.” 

“That’s -. How is that any different from how you use your allowance? You have to have bigger 
and grander dreams.” 

Having finished that pork sandwich in the blink of an eye, Haruhi looked at me as though pitying 
me. She smiled sympathetically. Then you decide what to do with your share, let’s hear it. 

“About gold and money, I don’t actually want it a lot. Treasure that can be exchanged for money, 
likewise. Since it’s something we worked hard to get, we must take extremely good care of it. 
This is because we are going to bury it somewhere ourselves. Then we’ll give our descendants a 
treasure map, don’t you feel this is something money can’t buy?” 

If it’s children, I guess they would love this kind of treasure hunting game. I shouldn’t only think 
of using the treasure like my allowance. If it’s something useful, I will keep it happily. If it’s 
something useless, we might as well bury it or throw it out. 

“That's boring.” 

Just like a jester, Haruhi’s lip curled and she started to laugh. 

“Maybe. If it’s going to be like Kyon’s foolish idea, I think it would be better if the treasure 
wasn’t one you could exchange for money. Mikuru-chan agrees too, right?” 


“Eh-?” 



Asahina-san suddenly got asked a random question. Her half-finished onigiri dropped down, and 
her graceful hand covered her now-chewing mouth. Her eyes whipped over. 


“Ye Yeah, I agree. Wait, no Um, that kind of thinking seems to be more joyful ” 

I wonder why Asahina-san didn’t finish her sentence, and, after seeing both Haruhi and I staring 
at her with inquisitive eyes, nervously waved her hands around. 

“De, I just hope we can find the treasure.” 

“Don't worry, treasure will be dug up. I know it.” 

Haruhi always says these baseless things, and now she has shoved a whole salad sandwich into 
her mouth, both her cheeks were very full. 

Nagato, sitting on the corner, also displayed a Haruhi-like appetite, and steadily ate. Koizumi, at 
the side, seemed to be pretending to be a young idol, as he knelt on one knee there. As my line of 
sight moved over, Koizumi just quietly slanted his paper cup and looked at me with a slight 
smile. As Asahina-san cleaned up the bentous, Haruhi and Nagato just sat there staring off into 
space. 

For this short time, the messages from the future, the other Asahina-san in Tsuruya-san’s house, 
it all disappeared from my mind. Maybe it’s because our whole group is together and happily 
eating a picnic lunch that I feel so joyful. An out-of-season mountain hike, a pointless treasure 
hunt, a content Haruhi, an unchanged Nagato and the same-as-usual Koizumi and Asahina-san, 
when I see them like this, for the moment I feel that nothing’s going to go wrong. 

Iya I might as well assume that nothing’s going to go wrong. 

That’s what I should think. So, I should just do what I need to tomorrow and the day after that, in 
my future. 


So, just like that, the vivacious lunch ended. My stomach is very full, and since we have nothing 
else to discuss, Haruhi and I drank tea while talking about trivial matters. Then Haruhi clapped 
her hands together and stood up. Things that must happen must happen sometime, said the other 
side of my heart. 

“Okay, the treasure hunt in the afternoon is going to start.” 

Haruhi squinted at Asahina-san, who was currently cleaning up the lunchboxes and thermos. 

“I just walked down the mountain from there. This mountain is covered in trees, there’s not a 
good place at all for digging. From this, I came to the conclusion that it must be buried 
somewhere without trees. If there are trees growing on top, we can’t dig holes there.” 



Haruhi made me pick up the shovel. 


“But, there’s progress, I found a very suitable place to dig at. Let’s go together. It’s straight 
down this way. It’s also faster to get home, so we shouldn’t have taken that bus, this is the 
shorter path.” 

I noticed Koizumi had already put the shovel onto his back and was prepared to descend down. 
Nagato folded the mat and held it, Asahina-san held both the baskets, and I got ready very 
quickly too. 

Haruhi was just like a Kamoshika, and she quickly jumped through the rocks and branches. And 
even on this steep of a path, Nagato’s still walking with ease. 

“Ah, that was close.” 

Nagato pulled on Asahina-san, who almost fell several hundred times. Koizumi and I both have 
heavy shovels in our hands, we couldn’t help her at all. I really want to throw away this shovel 
and help Asahina-san, but I guess I can just leave her to Nagato. Asahina-san, who always says 
thank you after being helped, is extremely polite. 

It’s a good thing our path is pretty much just going in a straight line down the mountain. 
Compared to our climbing time, it’s almost faster than I can imagine, and we got to the site faster 
than I expected. 

“Here. Look, don’t you think this is an unnatural plateau?” 

We stopped and looked like she told us to. No doubt about it, this is the place Asahina-san 
(Michiru) and I came to two days ago. It’s shaded by tall trees and the sunlight is dull and dim. 
The ground is littered with leaves that form an odd crescent shape. I strongly feel that I’ve seen 
this somewhere before. 

The stone gourd is still in the position where we left it. This is the rock I moved three metres 
west, and just like that other day, I have another situation to go through. At least the rock isn’t as 
white as it was two days ago. Ah, I see, it’s because it rained. Because the whole stone got 
extremely wet, the colour turned darker, but it also got rid of the excess dirt. If you don’t look 
closely, the colours of the previously exposed and buried parts are not that differentiable. 

Ah, Haruhi. As she walks in a circle around the rock, I’m already becoming slightly nervous. I 
hope her extremely sharp sixth sense doesn’t sense anything weird. Haruhi suddenly put one foot 
on the rock, and expressionlessly pushed it to the side. After that, she didn’t care about the rock 
and just sat on it. 

“Kyon, Koizumi-kun. The second phase starts now. We can’t just randomly dig, now can we?” 

The smile she showed was just like a small girl playing a prank. Koizumi immediately said ‘I 
understand.’ and followed Haruhi’s instructions. I, however, have a better spot to dig. 



Asahina-san (Michiru)and I had attempted to camouflage the original spot of the gourd-shaped 
rock, but if someone took the time to inspect it, they will find a lot of unnatural things there. 


For some reason, Nagato has already set up the mat exactly at that spot. She looked past the hair 
at the side of her face at me. Nagato didn’t do any code-like movements, just sat on the mat, 
silently reading. The corner-liking alien left a large space on the mat, so Asahina-san politely sat 
down. This type of scene is like a goddess, rare. The person sitting between them looks 
especially important. 

“Kora-! Kyon, this isn’t the time to be spacing out, go and help Koizumi-kun dig.” 

This SOS Brigade leader is yelling just like someone on a construction site making sure her 
subordinates aren’t slacking off. She really is a person who likes bossing others around. Haruhi 
already has minions and the forcefulness required to be a boss, even though she hasn’t even 
graduated yet. Just something I noticed. And as I thought that, I realized I didn’t have to think of 
this that way. I picked up the shovel and began to dig into the wet ground faster than Koizumi 
was. 


I guess I’ll tell you all what happened. 

It was pretty much what I expected it to be. No matter how we dig, even if we got a digging 
machine, we will never dig anything up. It was exactly as Asahina-san (Michiru) said, so I 
wasn’t surprised at all. I, who was afraid of making a mistake and digging up something weird, 
could finally relax, yet I got a complex feeling of disappointment. Was this actually good? Did I 
think too optimistically? 

“U-n. We didn’t find anything, any buried treasure that is,” said Haruhi, looking perplexed. She 
held a chocolate bar and munched on it while looking at me. Haruhi was still sitting on top of 
that gourd- shaped rock. 

I stopped filling in the hole and surveyed the clearing. The ground has been dug everywhere, 
there’s a whole bunch of holes and holes that were filled up, just like a bird dug it. It’s better if 
natural things are left undisturbed. 

“I guess that’s it.” 

Haruhi is never like this. She hunched her shoulders together, 

“It doesn’t look like there’s any more places to dig, let’s just end it like this.” 

After using her finger to point and instruct us, Haruhi walked back to the gourd-shaped rock and 
sat right in the middle. 



Koizumi and I have been listening to Haruhi and digging all this time. No matter where we dug, 
all we found was empty holes. Koizumi and I once again returned the dirt to its original position. 

So all we did was turn the hard dirt into soft soil suitable for earthworms to live in. 

Nothing was found, and it ended just like that. I don’t know how Haruhi will choose to vent her 
anger this time. 

“Go home, I guess. The sun’s already setting, if we stay on the mountain any longer, we’ll 
freeze. If we go down from this side, it’s quicker. It’s not that far from the road up to North 
High.” 

Koizumi and I cleaned up the baggage without haste after resting a bit and drinking tea Asahina- 
san had steeped. When we were rested, we all went down together. I really couldn’t see any 
regrets about leaving the mountain and the treasure in Haruhi, who was descending the mountain 
in high spirits. What the hell happened? The picnic in cold weather and the digging? 

Koizumi put his hand on a disappointed me’s shoulder. 

“Isn’t this quite good?” 

You don’t need to talk to me in a teaching tone. As I got angry, I suddenly remembered my 
mother’s words. 

“Sorry. But I am also really tired. Before Suzumiya-san finds a place that looks like it was dug 
on before, we should leave as soon as possible.” 

This I also agree with. Nagato, who only brought a mat today, was already leaving with Asahina- 
san. I was just wondering if what I did had a point to it. 

“A point?” 

“Suzumiya-san never has patience or perseverance, and is always changing, Isn’t it like that 
every time?” 

Haruhi, who didn’t want to look for treasure anymore, was walking very fast, leading us. 
Asahina-san and Nagato both followed behind. A little further back were me and Koizumi. 

Sometime later, about halfway home, Koizumi quietly said, 

“But, if there wasn’t any treasure at all, that’s really weird.” 


This phrase of yours, why do I feel like agreeing. 



“Really? If Suzumiya-san really felt something was there, it doesn’t matter if Tsuruya-san’s 
ancestors buried anything at all, there would be something there. If it’s Suzumiya-san, she still 
has this kind of power.” 

Yes. According to what you said before. 

[T/L note: Koizumi says something that would take effort to decipher.] 

To tell you the truth, it’s because Haruhi doesn’t think it exists. It’s not possible to have such a 
clear map, so it must be some old grandpa’s practical joke. 

Koizumi nodded mystically. 

“You’re good, Kyon, you already know what I mean. Right, Suzumiya-san doesn’t actually want 
treasure or anything passed down from a long-ago dynasty. I think there’s only one explanation 
for this. I think she just wanted to come out and picnic with everyone.” 

Well, just say so then, don’t just say that you want to dig up some treasure. I wouldn’t be against 
us all going out together on a picnic. 

“This is something that goes on inside a girl’s mind. From winter vacation all the way up to now, 
her spirit has been very stable. Maybe I should say she might be bored with this kind of 
stabilized life.” 

Your work is very easy, right? Regardless of whether those blue giants appear or not, Koizumi’s 
wage will not be changing anytime soon 

“No, wait.” 

I clutched my fist and asked, 

“Haruhi’ s stable right now? Since February began?” 

“Yeah. There are slight fluctuations, but there’s no change that’s negative. How should I say 
this... In fact, she’s been even more stable than before.” 

Then, what was that temporary melancholic period? Was my intuition wrong? 

“What did you feel?” 

Koizumi showed a slightly surprised look. 

“What I see is just the normal Suzumiya-san.” 


Aren’t you the expert on Haruhi’s mental state? Something even I could see you didn’t even 
notice. Are you planning not to do this analyzing thing anymore? 



“That wouldn’t be a bad idea.” 


The easily smiling Koizumi looked at me with a light gaze. 

“If we compare ourselves, you can actually understand Suzumiya-san’s feelings better than I do. 
I will have to give this job to you. That includes the Avatars in Closed Space. You haven’t been 
to one in a while, that world has - “ 

That can’t be helped, since I don’t want to go on any grand vacations. Taking many things into 
account, I actually prefer to stay here. 

“That’s a pity. To tell you the truth, it’s been quite a while since I’ve been there too.” 

It must feel bad to have so little opportunity to use your long-awaited powers. Maybe you should 
go to your boss and ask for a little bonus, go on vacation or something. 

“Let’s think about this together. The person who has to tell the boss about this proposal must be 
extremely brave.” 

Like throwing a baseball around, Koizumi and I tossed words at each other. We were already at 
the same farm path as the one I saw two days ago. Haruhi, Nagato and Asahina-san, who went 
down ahead, stood in a line waiting for us. The three of them, standing shoulder to shoulder, 
were coloured gold by the setting sun. If an impressionist artist saw them like that, he would 
probably start drawing. After gazing at the three of them for not quite long enough, 

“We don’t need to go back to the station. Everybody’s dismissed now.” 

Haruhi took the shovel from me, and a contented smile floated onto her face. 

“That was fun. It’s actually quite good to occasionally come out into the outdoors. Even though 
there wasn’t any treasure, there’s no need to be depressed. We already found some, since 
someday in the future, we will look back and love this day. And we have to tell Tsuruya-san. 
Maybe next time we’ll find a [dynasty - I don’t know Japanese history well] map.” 

I’d go for treasure any time, but please, no more maps. I’m also going to tell Tsuruya-san that if 
she ever finds such a thing, don't give it to Haruhi. 

I gazed at Haruhi ’s back as she bounced down the street with the two shovels in her hands. I 
really couldn’t say anything that expressed anger. Her melancholic stage in the classroom, I still 
don’t know if that was just my misunderstanding. Anyway, it’s good that she's back to her 
normal self. The strange peacefulness was just leading up to her explosion. During that time, she 
was storing up all her energy inside and, therefore, can never settle her mind. Eh? Why does it 
seem like I’m talking to myself? 



As we walked down the road that led to North High, we were all still together. Then, just as we 
got to the place where we usually split up, Haruhi, like she just remembered something, waved 
towards me. 

“Ah, right. Meet at the station tomorrow too. Same time as today, no problem?” 

Well, it’s not too good, but couldn’t you have said something before? 

Haruhi looked at me and coldly smiled. What, what’s with that smile? 

“We’re going to search the city. You can’t even come for a little while?” 

Even though we obviously can’t reject it, Haruhi pretended to be confirming everyone’s reply 
and walked around us in a circle. 

“Understood. Don’t be late, everyone. The last person,” 

After she took a deep, cold breath, Haruhi said something she says every time. 

“Will be fined!” 

I returned to my room. First I turned the heating on, then I took out my cell phone. 

Like we had a scheduled meeting, the place I phoned was Tsuruya-san’s house. The maid who 
answered the phone was very polite. I’ve already gotten used to this switching around. The 
number of times I’ve called her has already surpassed the number of times I’ve called Koizumi. 

“It’s me.” 

“Ah, yes. It’s me. Michiru Erm, Mikuru.” 

“Tsuruya-san’s not home right now?” 

“No She went out today. Said her family had something to take care of.” 

I think it’s probably better not to ask too much about where Tsuruya-san is, or what she’s doing. 
“Asahina-san, it happened today.” 

“Treasure hunt ?” 

“Even though we didn’t find anything.” 

I heard Asahina-san breath a sigh of relief. 



“That’s good. It followed exactly what I remember I was just worrying that if something 

different happened, what was I going to do.” 


I put the phone close to my ear and wrinkled my brow like I was thinking about something. 

“What do you mean, something different? If it’s the past, shouldn’t it be the same no matter 
where you go?” 

“Ah yeah. That, that, that is true, but ” 

It seemed as though I could see the helpless Asahina-san holding the phone. 

“It’s a very strange thing. Um, I don’t fully understand it, but...” 

As I listened to Asahina-san’s quiet voice, I remembered something. I remembered that I’ve 
already been to December the eighteenth several times. I remembered the twin circles on the 
white board. If I think about it, is where something starts and ends always the same? What she 
doesn’t know is what I don’t know. Nagato changing the world, what really happened there? 
According to Koizumi, there were two December the eighteenths. If there are two of one time, 
that’s very troublesome, so then we fixed it back to the way it was before, so this time is the 
correct one, er, it should be 

What actually ha-. Last month, I saved an elementary student from getting into a car accident. 
That event with the glasses wearing elementary student must’ve been fate. But what about the 
vehicle? They did it to mess up the order of time. Who is it that wanted to kill the kid? 

Who is it that wants to destroy the fabric of time, and pit themselves against the protectors, the 
time travelers, represented by Asahina-san? Whatever shall I do if that person is a time traveler 
as well? The only people who will be able to resist him will be time travelers. 

I understand what you’re saying, Asahina-san (Big). Is there anything you wish for me to do? 

“Sorry, Kyon-kun.” 

Asahina-san said listlessly. 

“Because this is Classified Information, there’s lots of things I want to tell you, but can’t. And I 
don’t know any important details Kyon-kun, I ” 

As I felt Asahina-san start to cry, I hurriedly said, 

“So, about tomorrow.” 

As Asahina-san said before, Haruhi wants to go on a city search again tomorrow. Tomorrow, 
Saturday, I must follow exactly what it says in letter #3.1 need to find a place where we can 
meet and Asahina-san (Mikuru) won’t see us. 



“Asahina-san, if it’s possible, can you change your look a little bit?” 


“My look?” 

From hearing her sniffing, I could imagine her crying body. 

“Sunglasses would be a bit unnatural for this season. You shouldn’t stand out too much if 

you wear a mask [T/L note: The ones that are used to cover your mouth when you’re sick.] Can 
you manage this kind of change?” 

“Ah, yes. I’ll get Tsuruya-san to help me.” 

“Then the time. When do we disperse tomorrow?” 


“Er-m. 


9? 


Asahina-san can remember the time. 

“Exactly five o’clock. We met at around three. Then everyone went to a coffee shop ” 

I took out letter #3 from my desk, and opened it. The place it instructed me to go to was only 
about ten minutes from the station. Even if I take fifteen minutes, that’s still only half an hour. 

I’ll stay at Tsuruya-san’s in the morning, go searching in the afternoon and then go to the 
appointed spot to meet Asahina-san. I guess that works. 

After making this extensive schedule for me and Asahina-san, I told her about the place and time 
she and I would meet. 

“Then, see you tomorrow, look after yourself. Please try not to wear anything too conspicuous. 
Ah, and,” 

There were dark clouds in my heart as I said this. 

“Also, if it’s possible, can you get Tsuruya-san to come with you? Just tell her I asked for a 
favour. Um, ah, no, it’s not to get her involved in this. Don’t worry. Just, I want her to escort you 
there ” 

From Tsuruya-san’s house to the rendezvous point, Asahina-san has to go back and forth all by 
herself. That will be hard on her. I don’t know why, but I always think there’s danger. It’s best 
not to let her walk by herself. 

“Yes. I’ll ask her.” 

Since it’s Tsuruya-san, she’ll see through me in an instant. I’m looking forward to her reply. 



I hung up the phone and immediately called Nagato, since there are a couple more things to ask 
her to do. 

But. 

“Nn?” 

Surprisingly, the line was busy. 

Who is Nagato talking to? Apart from a salesman, I don’t think anyone would phone her. I guess 
I’ll phone her later. As I felt sorry for myself, who had to phone everyone, I put the cell phone 
off to the side and changed. I put the pants that were covered in dirt into the washing machine, 
started it, and then phoned. 

This time someone picked up. 

“It’s me.” 


As usual, Nagato’s silence greeted me. 

“About tomorrow, I want to ask for a favour. Tomorrow’s search teams will be chosen by straws, 
right? Tomorrow and the day after that, I want you to help me do something.” 

“Is that so.” 

Nagato said in a cool, clear voice. 

“It is. Tomorrow afternoon and the day after that’s first pick, can I be in your group?” 


A long silence. 

“Sou.” 

I’m not sure if she’s agreeing with me, so I tried to confirm it. 
“Can you do it?” 

“I understand.” 

“Thank you, Nagato.” 


“No need.” 



“If I may ask, when I called you a little while ago, the line was busy. Who was the other 
person?” 

Another of Nagato’s long silences. I am now worried that something is going on with her and 
someone I know. 

“Suzumiya Haruhi.” 

Maybe it’d be better if I didn’t know the person. 

“You two talked on the phone?” 

“Sou.” 

“Why did she phone you, did she have something to talk to you about?” 


A third silence. My sense of hearing became keen, even the hand holding the phone sensed it. 
Nagato only said one line in reply. 

“Not telling.” 

What day is today, Nagato shocked me. I never thought Nagato would ever say that. Like I was 
blocked, I suddenly became silent. 

“It’s better if you don’t know.” 

Don’t say that kind of scary phrase. That’s the most unnerving phrase in the world. 

“ Don’t worry.” 

I can feel the hesitation behind her words. Like she’s contemplating whether or not she should 
tell me. It’s really worrying me. 

“Did Haruhi tell you not to tell?” 

“Sou.” 

That means Haruhi is planning something, and then forced Nagato to follow along, so they can’t 
tell me. Even though I don’t know what’s really going on, but if it’s something that requires 
Nagato to keep a secret, it must be something big. I guess that’s why we’re going on this search. 


I confirmed tomorrow’s actions with Nagato, who wasn’t really listening, and hung up the 
phone. 



Give me a break. This is a busy week. Even the days before a math, physics or history exam 
can’t compare to the business of this week. 

“That Haruhi, what’s she up to this time ?” 

If I think of it this way, my only partner left is Koizumi. Haruhi, Nagato and even Asahina-san 
are doing things I didn’t expect of them. Ah, Tsuruya-san is too. No matter what happens, to all 
intents and purposes, males cannot win against females. Maybe it’s because of the extra X 
chromosome. Who taught me this lesson of life? 

I lay on the bed, stretched out my arms and legs, and prayed that the next week would pass 
calmly. 

(End of Chapter 4) 


Chapter 5 

On the morning of the next day (Saturday) - 

Because I was never really good at manual labor, I found my body aching all over, no thanks to 
Haruhi. Fortunately, I didn’t dream of anything weird last night, and due to that I had a nice, 
deep sleep. 

I placed letter #3 into the pocket of my outer coat and proceeded to fetch my bicycle. Cold winds 
blew through the streets, and it appeared that today would be a cold day too. 

Due to the rising incidents of illegal parking, the authorities had decided to build a whole new 
parking lot in front of the train station. Anyone could park their bicycles inside if they purchased 
a ticket. After parking my bicycle, I proceeded towards the station, and found out that, 
unsurprisingly, I was again the last one to arrive. Asahina-san looked like a new land of adorable 
pet, wearing a warm, cozy outfit while waiting for my arrival. Koizumi wore one of those 
elegant smiles that was bound to get at least one out of five high school girls’ heads turning, and 
Nagato wore her sailor suit as usual, coupled with her cardigan and a hat, standing there quietly 
without uttering a word. 

With a scarf wrapped around her neck, Haruhi pointed her finger towards me and said, “We’ve 
been waiting for a long time, Kyon. Thirty seconds, to be exact.” 


Oh that’s too bad. If only I had parked my bicycle somewhere else instead of in the new parking 
lot, it would be the first city-wide search where I wasn’t the last one to arrive. Or maybe I just 
wanted Haruhi to treat us. 

“If that were the case, I would definitely treat all of you. But before that, let me make this clear: I 
do not like winding up last for anything, be it mock examinations, a race, or a meeting like this! I 
would rather sleep here overnight than be late.” 

Haruhi announced this with a big, energetic smile, like a knight eagerly awaiting a challenge. 
Indeed, the Haruhi before me looked as if she could knock down any foe before her while 
swinging a tachi. She should really learn to concentrate that overwhelming enthusiasm of hers 
into more useful endeavors. As I was thinking about what she could have done with her 
enthusiasm, Haruhi had already forcefully pulled me and the other brigade members to the coffee 
house. 

“Even though we didn’t find anything yesterday,” Haruhi said while chugging down her hot 
drink, “We should think about it for a moment. The SOS Brigade’s goal is not to find some 
ancient relic, but rather extraordinary events, like for instance some mysterious object left behind 
by a time traveler from the future. This town just reeks of time travelers! I’m sure we’ll be able 
to find something today!” 

Isn’t the town a little bit too big a scope? 

“It’s not a matter of how big the town is, but rather how advanced, how populated it is that time 
travelers will mostly take into consideration.” 

“ Just forget it.” 

I give up. What’s this have to do with how advanced a town is, or how heavily populated it is? 
Haruhi’s “extraordinary events” were those that didn’t appear on a schedule, and nobody knew 
when they would happen, or what they would be for that matter. Under these circumstances, all 
we could do was wait for the predetermined events to happen. 

From my point of view, I didn’t “discover” these extraordinary events, but was rather “forced to 
discover” these events instead. All I could do was do what I was told, and that’s all because. . . I 
mean, thanks, to you. 

As I was busy thinking back on what had happened during my past experiences, Haruhi had 
already marked the toothpicks with a ballpoint pen, and was ushering everyone to make their 
picks. “In order to speed things up, we’ll divide into two groups. There are two toothpicks with 
marks, and three without marks.” 

I instinctively looked at the sailor-suit clad Nagato, who was quietly sipping away at her fruit 
juice, while studying the menu before her. If I couldn’t be grouped together with Nagato, that 
was alright. 



Everything would be fine as long as I was grouped together with Koizumi. 


“Come on, draw your lot!” 

Haruhi said as she shoved five toothpicks in my face. 

“Are you hesitating because you’re not willing to be in a same group with someone? Hohoho. 
Who’d you like to be with then? You’re so childish!” 

Haruhi’ s smile resembled that of my neighbor, who in turn resembled a certain man-eating 
female ghost who lived in the attic. Thinking back about it, according to Asahina-san (Michiru), 
I would be grouped together with Koizumi. That means that I would have to pick a marked 
toothpick, and the probability of doing so was 2 out of 5 . According to the basic principles of 
probability, there was a higher chance of me picking an unmarked toothpick than a marked one. 
What if the principles of probability overrode Asahina-san’ s memory? If I indeed picked an 
unmarked toothpick, what could I do to tie up the present to Asahina-san’ s future? 

Oh well, there was probably nothing I could do about it. Faced with a silent, thinking, unmoving 
me, Haruhi passed the toothpicks to the other three brigade members. After the others had made 
their picks, I was left with the final 2 toothpicks. I nervously glanced at the toothpick in 
Koizumi’s hand. In his hand, Koizumi elegantly grasped a marked toothpick. 

Now only Haruhi and I have yet to draw lots. Since Haruhi had a habit of picking the last lot, it 
would mean that it was my turn to draw a lot. 

Closing my eyes and taking a deep breath, I reached for Haruhi’s fist and concentrated for about 
ten seconds. 

“That’s a bit over the top, no?” Haruhi said with a bewildered expression on her face. That’s 
what it may seem to you, but to me, it was more like sacred ritual. If everything didn't go as 
Asahina-san had said, I would be in trouble. 

“Oh, whatever!” I yelled as my hand flew forward at godlike speed. I can’t remember if it was 
my left hand or my right, all I remember was that I grabbed a lot based purely on intuition. But 
apparently that wasn’t a good thing to do, as in my anxiety, I accidentally pulled both toothpicks 
out of Haruhi’s fist. 

Watching the two toothpicks fly out of Haruhi’s fist, I initially thought, ‘It’s over’. Suddenly, 
one of the toothpicks fell on the table and began spinning horizontally. As I searched frantically 
for the second toothpick, I gazed up, only to see Haruhi grab it in midair. 

I cautiously lowered my gaze to the toothpick on the table. There was a small, yet visible, mark 
on it, like a small speck of dirt. 

“Oh, come on!” Haruhi said. “An all-guys and all-girls pairing? How boring!” 



That’s too bad. Truth to be told, the morning pairing really wasn’t of much importance to me. If 
only Koizumi hadn’t picked a marked toothpick, he would very well be grouped together with 
Asahina-san and Nagato. Since I couldn’t allow this potential two-timing, it was vital that he and 
I pick a marked toothpick. That’s why I calmed down upon knowing I would be grouped 
together with Koizumi. 

After that, all of us stood up and prepared to leave. Needless to say, it was my duty to settle the 
bill. A habit can be such a dangerous thing. How I loathe myself for picking up the bill so 
naturally! 

“I’m sorry you have to do this again, Kyon-kun. Thank you.” Asahina-san’s apology was the 
only thing that made me feel better. Koizumi also said something to that effect, but when 
coupled together with such a situation, and a happy smile to boot, how could you expect me to 
feel appeased? 

All he said was: 

“If you ever run out of money, I can always find a part-time job for you.” 


As I was about to leave the coffee shop, Koizumi approached me and told me more about this 
“job”. 

“It’s an easy job, really. After you get used to it, I’m sure it’ll be a piece of cake for you. The 
salary is absurdly high too, this I can guarantee you.” 

Thanks, but no thanks. 

An image of a devil hiding behind that smiling face suddenly flashed into my mind, as I found 
myself signing a mysterious guest book and brought into a mysterious research facility. As I was 
blindfolded, modifications were done to my mind and body, allowing me to temporarily receive 
esper powers. I’m sorry, Koizumi, but I’ve had enough of sealed spaces. I don’t want to be stuck 
in another one of those gray worlds again, thank you. 

“I’m also working on that part-time job. You can work too, if you wish. It’s not something 
stressful, don’t worry.” 

I think I’ll leave that kind of work to you. 

“Only you can do something like that,” 


I quickly replied, trying to exit this conversation as soon as possible. I wish to remain a normal 
human without special powers, be it real or manufactured, thank you. 



“Hmm. . Koizumi said as his lips curled upwards, revealing a smile. 


“If you ever change your mind, be sure to give me a call. I can teach you the basics, and even go 
beyond that, if you wish.” 

For some reason, Koizumi’s choice of words sounded strange and peculiar today. I had a feeling 
that he would be mentioning something I didn’t like should I play along with him, and for that 
one reason alone my gut told me to reject his offer all the way till the end, lest I end up falling 
into a trap. Sometimes, a man’s just gotta trust his gut. 


Haruhi was waiting for me outside the coffee shop. 

“Meet here at 12.” 

Nagato was positioned at Haruhi’ s right, as Haruhi curled her left arm around Asahina-san’s 
waist, grinning maniacally. 

“Listen up. I don’t care what it is, you have to uncover something mysterious today! Maybe you 
could try the sewers, since we’ve never been there before, or try counting the number of stripes 
in pedestrian crossings to see if they’ve mysteriously increased! As long as you put your hearts 
into it, I’m sure you’ll be able to find something interesting! If you do something half-heartedly, 
you’ll never achieve anything!” 

You know, you’ve been the target of two aliens and a time traveler now, and yet you’re still in 
the dark about it. . . Oh, I give up. 

Now if I were competing in a scavenger hunt, and the object I was supposed to seek was 
“something strange”, the first thing that I would drag all the way to the finish line would be 
Haruhi. Come to think of it, someone normal like me being a member of the mystery-ridden SOS 
Brigade was perhaps the strangest thing of all. While Haruhi pressured us to look for “mysterious 
things”, I found myself wishing for nothing more than a normal high school life. Reality is 
always so paradoxical, it seems. 

Haruhi dragged Nagato and Asahina-san across the streets and parted ways with us. I tightened 
my scarf and turned to Koizumi. 

“So where do mysterious things appear?” 

We had two hours to search for something mysterious. In this freezing cold weather, Koizumi 
smiled and said coolly, “Even if I were to tell you where, I’m sure you wouldn’t like it. Nor am I 
willing to go to such a place. Let’s just take this opportunity to take a stroll and chit-chat a little.” 



Koizumi was surprisingly quiet the whole time. All we did was look at some carp in an 
aquarium, before proceeding to flip through some magazines at the convenience store. No matter 
how you look at it, both of us looked like ordinary high school students. 

As for the dialog exchanged between us, this was mostly limited to stuff like the term-end 
exams, the drama shows which aired yesterday, and the sort. Hearing him talk so casually did 
nothing, but increase my suspicion. Or was I wrong? 

“I want to become someone who appears to be a normal high school student on the outside, but 
in reality is an esper on the inside. That’s why, in my opinion, appearances are very important.” 

Koizumi spoke as we slowly crossed the streets. “I never once thought that I would be an esper 
forever. Sometimes, I wish that I could just gift wrap my esper powers and give them to someone 
else, freeing myself of both my powers and my burden.” 

Am I supposed to be relieved upon hearing that? 

Koizumi smiled at me and continued. “I don’t have these thoughts often, only sometimes. If I 
were given the choice right now, I would undoubtedly choose for things to remain how they are. 
Being able to come in contact with cosmic beings, being able to communicate with those from 
beyond this time plane; I don’t think there’s anything more amazing and awe-inspiring than that. 
But of course, your experiences far outweigh mine.” 

If I were you, I’d include you in those ‘amazing and awe-inspiring’ experiences. 

“From my point of view, even though being an esper is strange and unexplainable, it’s neither 
amazing nor awe-inspiring. One day, I’m going to graduate from being a high school student, 
provided that Suzumiya-san does not repeat her grade. That’s why I try to enjoy life as it is right 
now, both as a high school student and as an esper.” 

All I want to do is enjoy a peaceful high school life. However, I will say that you’re pretty 
praiseworthy of your actions during the summer and winter co-ed incidents. 

“That’s because I’ve been a member of the ‘Organization’ for about 4 years now. If I hadn’t 
received any esper powers at that time, I would not have transferred into North High, and would 
probably be engaged in some activity that does not concern the fate of the world right now.” 

“Isn’t that supposed to be a good thing?” 

As the traffic lights turned green, both of us proceeded to cross the streets. 

“I have no idea if I transferred here due to my esper powers or some other-worldly powers, but it 
doesn’t really matter, right? I’m already here, after all. And although you constantly say that the 
SOS Brigade is a silly club, you’ve never once regretted joining it, have you? If you were truly 
fed up with it, you could write a letter of resignation. I suppose I could help you hand it over to 
Suzumiya-san.” 



Koizumi said this as his lips curled upwards, as if mocking me. 


“Just forget it.” 

Koizumi ignored me and continued on with an amused voice. 

“You’re like a totally different person now. I still remember the first time meeting you and 
Suzumiya-san, and the good vibes I felt from all of you back then. And then, I was promoted to 
Vice-Commander. . . But let’s just forget about that for a moment. Do you still remember what I 
said during the Snow Mountain incident?” 

Of course I do. Even if you eventually forget it someday, I’ll never forget it for the rest of my 
life. And if you dare to go back on your word, I’ll make sure to combine forces with Haruhi and 
crush you with full force. 

“I’m greatly relieved then. Even if I do contract amnesia one day, at least someone will be there 
to remind me about it.” 

Koizumi smiled as he said: 

“Nagato-san almost said ‘I hope such a situation won’t befall all of you again’ back then. If 
something like that ever happens again, I’ll surely help all of you out, so don’t worry.” 

Upon hearing this, I suddenly felt relieved that aside from Nagato, there was somebody else I 
could rely on. “I think this goes without saying, but the desire to protect Asahina-san has always 
been present within everyone. Without knowing it, you suddenly get the urge to protect her. I 
think this also qualifies as a ‘power’, no?” 

After crossing the streets, Koizumi abruptly stopped and looked at his watch. Taking a hint, I too 
looked at my watch, and found out that we had in fact been strolling around for quite some time. 
It was almost time for us to gather again. Just as I was about to head for the station, Koizumi 
suddenly said softly: 

“As for the other Asahina-san, although I will be protecting her as a part of the ‘Organization’, 
please be careful. That Asahina-san may be different from the other Asahina-sans.” 

Asahina-san (Big)’s image suddenly popped in my mind, as I continued on forward without 
turning back. Even though Koizumi’s voice grew fainter and fainter, I could still make out what 
was he trying to say. “She is, to us — The SOS Brigade— more than a simple mascot.” 

That may be so. After all, you were the first one to tell me so. “That’s why,” 

I said, 

“Even if the future were to change, I don’t care. What’s important is it should start changing 
now.” 



When Koizumi and I reached the station, the other three were already there waiting for us. “Did 
you find anything mysterious?” was what Haruhi first asked. I’m sorry Haruhi, but even if we 
had really looked, I doubt that we would have found anything. 

“No.” 

That was the only logical answer, followed up with “Same goes with the three of you. You guys 
didn’t find anything either right? That makes us even.” 

“You’re right, we didn’t spot anything mysterious.” 

Haruhi replied without sighing or flying into a rage. She must be really happy today. 

“But we did have fun, trying out the various food samples offered in the supermarket, didn’t 
we?” Haruhi happily asked Asahina-san. 

“Y-yea!” Asahina-san agreed as she nodded, and for a split second, her fluttering hair reminded 
me of the crimson butterflies which were flying about in my house’s garden right now. “We saw 
many interesting things, and even bought some new tea!” 

Asahina-san had a very contented look on her face, as if she had just gone on a shopping spree. 
Upon closer inspection, I noticed that Nagato had a plastic bag, which bore the label of a 
bookshop, in her hand. Come on, do you guys really think that there’ll be something mysterious 
in a shopping mall? 

Unless you’re talking about mystery books, which can be found in the book store, of course. 

“Oh well, it’s not that bad.” 

Asahina-san said, as if unsatisfied. “If we do things in a rush, we may regret it later on. The more 
anxious we are, the more slowly we should try to handle things. It’s the same with driving. If we 
frequently accelerate, when something happens, we won’t be able to brake in time, as opposed to 
if we didn’t accelerate. Things like this happen because we never thought they would, and when 
they really do, problems arise.” 

I don’t get your logic here. 

“It’s not an easy theory, is it, Kyon.” Haruhi suddenly said. “The same can be said with a 
Daruma doll. You would think that it wouldn’t stop rocking, and when you finally look away for 
that one second, it suddenly stops. That’s how mysterious things work. If you don’t turn back 
and look at it at the right moment, you’ll miss it altogether. You need to grasp the right moment, 
that’s what we mean by chance, Kyon. Chance.” 



I’m getting lost here. I have no idea what's going on in Haruhi’s brain, but the way she worded it, 
it was as if she wanted me to grasp my goddess’ hair the moment it began fluttering in the wind. 
It’s impossible, I tell you. The only person who can grasp something as abstract as that is 
someone who is fed information from the future. 

“Come to think of it, where should we have lunch?” 

That’s how you answer my question? 

“I know of a new Italian restaurant which just opened opposite the bank. I’ve scanned the menu 
once, and from the looks of it, it looks really delicious. So, shall we get a table for five?” 

It seems that Haruhi has totally dodged the question. I felt like a Buddhist Monk reciting Holy 
Scriptures to a nearby cow. Aside from increasing my karma, doing so served no purpose, as no 
matter how I tried, the cow would not be swayed. Sometimes, I feel that the same goes with 
Haruhi. 

“I have no problems with that. What about you, Koizumi?” 

I wondered what would happen if Koizumi suddenly put on a face and said T’m sorry but I can’t 
stand ‘Insalata Caprese’. Of course, this would never happen, as Koizumi would never say no to 
anything that popped out of Haruhi’s mouth. All he did was smile and reply with a joyful ‘Sure’. 

“It’s decided then.” Haruhi said, as if giving us the signal that we needn’t run round the city 
meaninglessly anymore and could finally sit down and enjoy a meal. When we reached the 
restaurant and were finally seated, I found my body aching all over, no thanks to Haruhi. 

Sometimes I wonder if I worry about that girl too much, just like I sometimes wonder if I’m 
being too nice to Shamisen. Whenever I see her looking down and depressed, I would worry 
about her, and think that it would be much better if she remained energetic all the time. I wonder 
if one day Haruhi would become just like the glass of warm water before me - neither too hot, 
nor too cold; neither too energetic, nor too quiet. 

As I wondered about this, my eyes shot instinctively towards Haruhi, who had already gulped 
down her glass of water in three seconds, and was asking the waiter for refills. Just like how it 
would take time for Asahina-san (Small) to grow up into someone like Asahina-san (Big), it 
would also take time for Haruhi to become someone like that. 

After ordering Today’s Special (‘Risotto alia Milanese’), I felt my wallet deflate completely, as 
Haruhi once again began marking the toothpicks. 

This was it, the most important moment of the day. It was because Asahina-san was concerned 
that I felt so anxious. Up until now, I had been constantly worrying whether Asahina-san 
(Michiru) would show up at the prearranged spot. Please be there! 



As I glanced around me, the first person to have finished her meal, now silently studying the 
menu, was none other than Nagato. She looked as if she was keenly interested in the toothpicks 
in Haruhi’s hand. Since I had asked for her help earlier, I knew that I needn’t worry, as I 
confidently went first and picked a toothpick. 

A marked one, as always. 

Nagato went next, gracefully pulling out another marked toothpick. Without uttering a word, she 
placed the toothpick on the table, and returned to the menu. 

“I guess there’s no need to continue drawing lots,” Haruhi said as she stuffed the remaining three 
toothpicks in the ashtray. Without complaining or crying foul play, Haruhi picked up the bill and 
began studying it. Since there was no way Haruhi would treat us, each of us paid for our own 
share and we left. Emerging into the cool winter air, the five of us strolled aimlessly on the 
streets, like fish swimming here and there in the ocean. 

As Haruhi, Asahina-san, and Koizumi went their way, Nagato and I headed for a different path. 
Or more specifically, the two of us headed towards the place I had arranged to meet up with 
Asahina-san (Michiru). 

Whenever I walk together with Nagato, my mind drifts back to the first time I walked with her 
like this last spring, back when she was still wearing glasses, without a sliver of emotion on her 
ice cold poker face. Come to think of it, it was then that Nakagawa noticed us. 

As I walked, I found Nagato silently following me two steps behind. Because I couldn’t detect 
her presence, I had to constantly turn back to make sure that she was still there. Of course, she 
would always return my gaze with an expressionless face. 

I’m sure both of us felt a sense of nostalgia, as we were headed for a place we’d both remember 
- the public library. After I brought her here for the first time, while she was still wearing 
glasses, it seemed that Nagato frequently visited this place. For both me and Nagato, this was 
one memorable place indeed. 

This time is no different from the other, aside from the fact that Nagato had already obtained a 
library card, and is no longer wearing glasses. The both of us headed silently towards the library, 
without uttering a single word, yet not feeling the slightest bit awkward. For me, silence was 
gold, and speech was silver. If it were Haruhi or Koizumi we were talking about, then I would 
have thought that they were up to something, but since it was Nagato, I fully acknowledge her 
silence as a positive point. 

Immersed in silence, we entered the library, and then I paused to gaze around looking for 
someone. As I spotted her sitting on a sofa, Asahina-san stood up and walked towards me, as if 
wanting to save me the trouble of walking. 



Asahina-san was wearing Tsuruya-san’s favorite jacket, a flowery muffler, and a straw hat. Upon 
seeing who I was with, Asahina-san (Michiru)’s eyes grew large, as she said, “Kyon-kun... A- 
ah... Nagato-san...” 

Since I was in a library, I mimicked Asahina-san’s actions by placing my finger upon my lips, 
before toning down my voice and saying, “Tsuruya-san’s not here, is she?” 

“No, she’s not,” 

Asahina-san said as she glanced nervously behind my back. You don’t have to be that afraid, you 
know. 

“Tsuruya-san said she had something to do today, so she couldn’t come with me here, 
however...” 

Asahina-san nervously twirled her fingers, 

“She arranged for a car to transport me here, and even gave me some money to take a cab back 
home...” 

I was slightly disturbed by the fact that Tsuruya-san couldn’t follow her to the library, but was 
even more disturbed by Asahina-san’s large eyes. I turned around, wondering if there was 
anything else behind me, like a vengeful spirit or the sort, other than Nagato. 


Nagato looked at Asahina-san, without any trace of expression on her face. I suddenly recalled 
that when I told Nagato to help me manipulate the outcome of the lot drawing. . . 

I had totally forgotten to tell her why. 

Oh crap. 

“A-ah, Nagato, you see...” 


With Asahina-san clad in such an outfit, I don’t think the “She’s her identical twin!” story would 
fool anyone, never mind Nagato. 

“This is another Asahina-san.” 

“I know.” 


Nagato said without looking the least bit shocked. 



“0-oh, that’s right, I’ve introduced her to you before!” 


“E-Erm...” 


“I’m sorry. Really sorry.” 

Why was the librarian looking at me, who was sandwiched between an apologizing Asahina-san 
and an ice-cold Nagato, with such weird eyes? I doubt I’ll forget them even after three days. 
What was she thinking? 

Ten seconds later, Nagato said, 

“Is that so?” 

I looked at Nagato, as her chin drooped down that millionth of a centimeter for a split second. It 
seemed that she had approved. 

I took this opportunity to briefly explain what I had to do. “I have to head somewhere with this 
Asahina-san to accomplish something important. After we’re done, I’ll be back for you. Can you 
wait here?” 

“I’ll wait for you,” was all she said, as if understanding my current situation. 

After watching Nagato return a book that was as thick as my pillow back to a crammed 
bookshelf, I turned towards Asahina-san and said, 

“Let’s go, Asahina-san.” 

I once again turned back to see Nagato disappear within the bookshelves. The clock on the wall 
read two o’clock. 

“ Erm... Kyon-kun...” Asahina-san said with a tone that suggested she was having great 

difficulty getting her words out, “You brought Nagato-san here without telling her anything, 
didn't you?” 

“Oh, I’m sorry. I had completely forgotten about that.” 

“No. . . That’s not it. . .” Asahina-san said as she shook her head. 

“Nagato-san is probably angry at you now.” 

Huh? I’m sorry, but how do you put it? From the tone of her voice, it seemed that even Asahina- 
san was angry at me now! No, that’s not it. Nagato wouldn’t be angry at someone — Gah, I give 
up. A sigh escaped my lips. 



“I don’t really care, but. . . Kyon-kun, you have to apologize to Nagato-san after we’re done, 
okay?” 

Asahina-san put her ‘senpai’ charm to full use as she made that statement. After that, as we left 
the library, Asahina-san glanced at the road without saying anything, leaving a very confused me 
behind. 

Where should we go now, and what should we do, you ask? It would seem that the only logical 
course of action is to follow the instructions on the letter in my pocket. 

As the wind blew through the trees, we both walked in silence. Did my body feel cold due to the 
coldness of winter? Or was it due to me walking beside Asahina-san and still managing to find 
time to read every single house number plate we passed by, instead of attempting to talk to her? 
From Asahina-san’s footsteps, I could tell that she too was pretty anxious. 

We were almost at our destination, as the aforementioned bridge loomed close. 

I read the letter one last time, confirming that we were at the right bridge. As Asahina-san and I 
stopped before the bridge, we were amazed by the entire array of blooming flowers. 

The flowers were extremely pretty, making the flowers that grew on the path up to North High 
look like a joke. These were the flowers that bloomed despite the harshness of the winter, and 
deep inside my heart, I felt proud of them. Some had even blossomed completely, making me 
wonder if I were to search in this large, 10 meter flower patch, would I end up like yesterday, 
with nothing much save a face full of dirt? 

Careful not to let the wind carry the letter away, I read it again. 

“We have to find it within. . .” 

If we were to search every nook and corner of this flower patch, it would be really time 
consuming, and I hadn’t taken that time into account. 

“No, I don’t think it’ll take much time at all,” 

Asahina-san said as she pointed at one corner of the flower patch. 

“There’s only one area where purple common stock grow.” 

I felt highly embarrassed for not even knowing the common name of flowers. As I peered in the 
direction Asahina-san pointed, all I could see were some small bluish flowers waving in the 
wind. 


“Those yellow flowers are Pheasant's Eyes, while the violet ones there are Persian Violets. As 
for those, erm, I think they’re Hairy Violets.” 



I was shocked, and greatly impressed, by Asahina-san’s knowledge of flowers. 

“While attending class here, I learned a lot of things. One of them was about botany and the 
names of flowers.” 

I’m saved then. Yesterday’s treasure hunt was like looking for a needle in a haystack. At least 
now I know specifically where to look. 

“Please be careful not to tread on the flowers.” 

I took Asahina-san’s request seriously, and proceeded with care towards the patch of common 
stock. It seemed that Asahina-san cared deeply about these flowers which bloomed in the winter. 
I peered down from above the patch of flowers. 

The letter asked for a transmitter, which would be present here. Purging all doubt from my mind, 
I began looking. If time travelers from the future said it would be here, then it would definitely 
be here. If it weren’t for that fact, what I was doing was no different from a servant following his 
master’s order. 

Asahina-san looked at me from the side, as I dived into the patch of common stock, and 
cautiously turned every stem and leaf. Although there weren’t many cars or people who passed 
by this place, if someone else saw me, I wouldn’t blame them for thinking that I was ruining the 
flower patch. All I hoped for while searching in the flower patch was for a patrol car to not pass 
by. 

And so, thirty minutes passed. I brushed off the dirt on my fingertips on my pants, and proceeded 
to wipe off my sweat with the back of my hand. 

That’s strange. 

I couldn’t find anything, even after inspecting every single common stock growing there. I even 
took the liberty of searching beneath the Persian Violets and Hairy Violets. 

But aside from rocks, I couldn’t find anything that was man-made, never mind a future 
transmitter. 

While I was searching, Asahina-san also joined me in my search, just in case I missed a spot. 
However, even with four eyes searching, we still couldn’t find anything. 

“What’s going on ?” If we didn’t find anything here, Asahina-san (Big) would have surely 

known of it, no? Since Asahina-san (Michiru) had been searching by my side all this time, it was 
impossible that Asahina-san (Big) didn’t know about it. There would be no meaning to sending 
me that letter then. 


“What should we do, Kyon-kun?” 



Asahina-san looked at me as if she were about to burst into tears any moment now. 


“If we don’t find it, it’ll be very troublesome for us. The first of the secret commands was the 
harshest, stating that it was crucial I find the device. If I don’t do so accordingly. . .” 

Asahina-san’s scarf had already loosened, but she paid no attention to it, or should I say, she 
didn’t even notice. The look on her face was even more terrified than when she had encountered 
Nagato with me in the library, and upon seeing her face, I began to panic. Just as I was about to 
search the flowerbeds again, someone called out from behind my back — “Is this what you’re 
looking for?” 

The voice definitely didn’t come from someone I knew. It was deep and hoarse, and before I 
knew it, I had already spun around. Sometimes, the body does react faster than the mind. I 
stretched both my arms open, as if protecting Asahina-san behind my back, and looked at the 
source of the voice. 

The voice came from someone who was positioned roughly five or six steps away from me. He 
was almost the same height as I was, and his face was of a complete stranger's. Although it was 
the first time we had met, I knew that deep down something was wrong with him. He had an 
extremely detestable face, one that made you hate him even though you had just met him 
moments ago. 

The stranger held up a board-shaped object by his fingertips, as if picking up something dirty. It 
was jet black, and resembled the object from the drawings. 



& 

The stranger held up a board-shaped object by his fingertips, as if picking up something dirty. It was jet 
black, and resembled the object from the drawings. 


“It looks so boring, waddling in the flowerbeds just for the sake of that girl’s future. I wouldn’t 
do it if I were you.” 

The stranger’s lips curled upwards slightly. Even though I’m pretty dim, I knew that he was 
making fun of me. 

“You’re a strange guy.” 

He said as his looked at me with disrespectful eyes. 

“I don’t know why are you wasting your time doing useless stuff like this. Don’t you have other, 
better things to do?” 

Due to my experiences this last year, I had developed a sixth sense capable of detecting danger, 
and right now it told me that things weren’t too good. 

Come to think of it, what good was sensing danger if all I would do was smile and think “Oh this 
is bad”? Now that I had identified the danger, it was time to think of a suitable course of action. 

As expected, I couldn’t think of any. There was no choice, then. The only thing I could do was 
ask, “Erm, where did you get that from?” 

Upon hearing my question, the stranger snickered. “Oh, in that flowerbed you’re standing on, 
before you guys arrived. It was pretty obvious, and all I had to do was walk over there and pick it 
up.” 

“Give it to me.” I said trying to look as fierce as possible. However, the stranger merely laughed 
at my feeble attempt. 

“Why should I give you something that isn’t even yours? Aren’t we supposed to hand lost items 
like this to the police?” 

“Why don't I send it over, or even better, why don't you just give it to me for safekeeping. I’ll 
hand it back to its original owner for you. Isn’t that even better?” 

“Hmm. . .” The stranger said as he sneered. 

“Do you think the owner’s address is written on that letter you have there? How can you be sure? 
Did you ask that alien friend of yours?” 

This guy knows about Nagato? No, wait. How did he know about the letter in the first place? I’m 
sure the only ones who have seen it are Asahina-san and me! 


This can only mean one thing. This guy. . . 



Behind me, Asahina-san had grabbed my wrists and was slowly shaking them. Without turning 
back, I asked the panicking Asahina-san: 


“Do you know this guy, Asahina-san?” 

“No. . .” Asahina-san said while shaking her head. “I haven’t even met him before. . . I know no 
such person...” 

“It doesn’t matter who I am. It’s not like I’m going to eat the both of you up anyways, although I 
would greatly like to do so.” 

I was getting bad vibes from this guy. His smile was more of a grimace, one that I had never seen 
on even Koizumi’s face before. From his detestable face and annoying smile, I could clearly feel 
a sense of malevolence coming from him. 

What should I do? Should I fight for the transmitter? If this guy wasn’t a normal human, there 
was almost no way I could defeat him, even if Asahina-san and I were to attack him two versus 
one. I should have brought Nagato along, damn it! 

I clenched my fists, as two thoughts raced through my brain. Should I fight, or should I call for 
reinforcements? 

“Hmph.” 

The stranger’s smile vanished off his face, and was replaced by a look of extreme boredom. With 
a flick of his finger, he flicked the transmitter towards me, as the small, black, board-like item 
traveled through the air in a trajectory course. Before it landed on the ground, I quickly shot 
forward to catch it. 

“Take it then. It’s something I have to do after all. Do as you wish with it, and you can follow 
those silly orders for all I care. Continue to do as the time travelers tell you to, if you really want 
to.” 

I looked at the object in my arms, which resembled a digital camera’s memory card, albeit one 
which I had never seen before. I couldn’t tell if it was dirty after being placed in the flowerbed, 
or if that was its original color. 

Ah, whatever. Most importantly, it was safely in my hands right now. The thing which I had to 
worry about was this guy before us now. 

“Who the heck are you, and how did you know we would be here?” 

“Hmph.” 

The guy’s sneer became more apparent. 



“Aren’t you the same? What are you doing here? Why have you come all the way here? Why? 
Aren’t I supposed to ask you that first?” 

Seeing someone who was roughly of the same age as I behave so arrogantly made my anger boil. 
However, I knew that I couldn’t let my anger get the best of me. Now was not the time to do 
things according to my own feelings. 

Plus, Asahina-san was tightly hugging me, apparently very much intimidated by the stranger. 
“The person you should be questioning isn’t me.” 

The stranger said, as his gaze fell onto the figure by my side. 

“Isn’t that so? Asahina Mikuru?” 

I tightly held Asahina-san’s hand, as she continued to clutch onto my jacket. 

“W-what do you mean? I d-don’t know you. . . Where have you. . .” 

The stranger’s smile turned into a frown. 

“I see. . . It’s your first time meeting me eh. Treat this as ‘Nice to meet you’ then. But to me, I’ve 
already met you several times now. You get what I mean? Asahina Mikuru.” 

I never loathed someone so much in my life before, as I found myself being pushed to the limits. 
From the malice in this guy’s eyes, it was obvious that he viewed Asahina-san as his enemy. 

I may be mistaken, but I definitely felt that he was human. I’ve never met someone who so 
openly showed his animosity before. I never liked him from the first time I saw him, and it 
seemed that he had no intentions of hiding his hatred either, as he openly made snide remarks. I 
hate these type of characters, and I was sure Haruhi did too. 

“If you have anything you want to say, just spit it out.” 

Whenever someone suspicious appeared before me, I would find myself toughening up. The only 
person I would allow to babble such crap would be Koizumi. I continued, as my voice became 
firm, “If there’s anything you need from me, just say it out loud. Do you need me to relay a 
message to Haruhi? Or how about I introduce you to her, huh?” 

“There’s no need for me to meet with Suzumiya Haruhi.” 

Upon hearing his reply, I was initially shocked, but quickly got over it. I thought that this guy 
had some business with Haruhi. Apparently I was wrong. 


“I am different from Asahina Mikuru,” 



The stranger said as he shifted his eyes, gazing at the time traveler of the SOS Brigade, then 
shifting them towards me. 


“You should think twice before following her orders so blindly. Reality is not just bound to you 
only. The same rules used to apply to me. That memory chip is an important artifact to the 
future. As long as you picked it up with your own hands, the future will not change no matter 
who obtains it. Isn’t that so?” 

No, I’m afraid I don’t agree. I’ve been following my schedule pretty tightly until now, and that 
schedule clearly doesn’t state the appearance of a stranger like you. 

“You’re pretty dim, aren’t you? Don’t you get it? What you’re doing won’t make much 
difference. Why am I here, you ask? Well, what do you think I’m here for?” 

“How the hell would I know,” I responded without thinking. I’m sorry, but I’m not the one who 
usually does the thinking in the SOS Brigade. If you want a detailed deduction, I’ll just have to 
refer you to our Vice-Commander instead. 

“I decline, seeing as I don’t plan to do so.” 

What a cold answer. The stranger retreated, as if being carried by the wind. “The only reason I’m 
here today is to meet you and play with you. It’s a predetermined event, anyway. I’m not sure 
which future agenda you follow, but the one thing we time travelers must all adhere to is the 
prohibition of interfering with the past. Hmph!” 

After saying what he had to say, the stranger turned and quickly left. Geez, what an impolite 
fellow. Not even bothered to introduce himself, all he did was show up and spout some nonsense 
only he would understand. For a moment I wondered if I should pursue him, but I decided to let 
it slide. 

Asahina-san stood behind me like a statue, her hands were closed tightly around my wrists, and it 
seemed that she had sprouted roots for legs, as she stood there unmoving. All she did was gaze at 
the despicable fellow, as he turned a corner and disappeared from sight. 

“Kyaa~” 

As if losing all her strength, my petite senpai fell limp all of a sudden. I hurriedly supported her 
with my body. Asahina-san stuck to me, as if wanting to leech my body heat, but for some 
reason, I wasn’t the least bit happy. 


“Asahina-san, do you really not recognize that fellow?” 

I asked a wobbling Asahina-san, who had at least regained the strength to stand. “ He’s 

probably... another time traveler...” Asahina-san said softly. 



That was exactly what I thought. If I were to put it in words, I would say that he shared a similar 
aura with Asahina-san, and based on my skills of deduction, I had come to the same conclusion. 
However, I had absolutely no idea why he had come all the way to the past. He had specifically 
come to this area and picked up something important to us, and I don’t think his motive was to 
see me and Asahina-san crawl around in the flowerbeds for thirty minutes. 

A new time traveler. One that held feelings of animosity towards Asahina-san. 

For some reason, this thought made me shiver more than the freezing winter wind. Just like how 
there were different cosmic entities present, it seemed that time travelers had their different 
agendas. Call me paranoid, but I also suspected that Koizumi’s ‘Organization’ had some inner 
conflicts within it. What these factions had done up until now, I have no idea. All I knew was 
that they were beginning to step on the stage, slowly revealing themselves to us. 

“So there are different types of time travelers after all. . .” I sighed. As if wanting to reply me, 
Asahina-san opened her mouth and said, “Erm. . . Well. . .” Unfortunately, that was all that she 
said, as she hurriedly shut it, before proceeding to open it again. Her eyes drooped low, as she 
said: 

“I’m sorry, it’s classified information. Even if I wanted to tell you, I’m prohibited from doing 
so.” 


Don’t worry, it’s fine with me. Don’t think of it too much. 

“B-but. . . This is something important. That guy may just show up anytime again. . . And maybe 
even during unstable periods like this. . .” 

Unstable? 

“Yes, unstable. I’m supposed to be with Suzumiya-san in this current time period. Since he saw 
me here, it could have messed things up. . .” 

That kinda makes sense. 

I once again took out the crumpled letter from my pocket and began reading it. If, according to 
Asahina-san (Big), Asahina-san and I meeting with that guy was a predetermined event, the only 
way that would be possible, with Asahina-san (Mikuru) still being together with Haruhi and 
Koizumi would be to arrange for Asahina-san (Michiru) to be together with me when the event 
triggered. 

The memory chip in my hand was probably covered in sweat right now. Although it seemed that 
luck was on our side, seeing that the stranger returned the chip to us, I felt that I had a pretty bad 
day today, running into someone like him. As I pocketed the object, I once again felt rage 
building up within me. Even though we had just parted, whenever I thought of that guy’s 
sneering face, I would be boiling all over. Someone who wanted to harm Asahina-san, and was 
even equipped with a pass to hop between the past, the present and the future, was way beyond 



my league. Even so, I definitely wouldn’t allow him to, and I’m sure Tsuruya-san wouldn’t 
either. Haruhi would probably never forgive him, and the same goes without saying for Nagato 
and Koizumi. 

“Will we meet him again?” 

“I suppose so.” 

Asahina-san said so with terrified eyes, which were still darting around in fear, as if she was 
looking out for something. The only consolation for the day was that Asahina-san still didn’t 
notice she was clinging tightly onto my wrists. 

“That person said something about a predetermined event. . . He must be similar to me. 
Furthermore...” 

Asahina-san abruptly stopped, leaving her sentence hanging in midair. Classified information? 
“Yeah.” 

Asahina-san finally detached her body from mine. 

“I’ve never seen such a bad guy before. What about you, Kyon-kun?” 

No matter how I look at it, or how I think of it, he still drives me mad. I hated him for shouting at 
Asahina-san and me. It was bad enough to shout at me, but at Asahina-san too? Oh forget it, it’s 
probably the first time anyone has done so anyway. Nice to meet you? Nice my ass! 


Since we wasted most of our time unintentionally destroying the flowerbeds and meeting up with 
that strange fellow, it was already three in the afternoon. Haruhi had requested that we meet at 
four. Even if I dragged Nagato from the library and brought her to the station, there would still 
be some time remaining. I couldn’t just let Asahina-san hail a cab all on her own seeing that the 
person driving the cab may very well be one of our enemies. At this thought, that sneering 
bastard’s face came into mind. 

Even if my heart bleeds at my lost cash, I had no choice but to sit on the same cab with Asahina- 
san, and after leaving her at Tsuruya-san’s residence, board the same cab back to the library. 

As I hailed down a cab and boarded it with Asahina-san, Asahina-san suddenly asked me: “Erm, 
what is Tsuruya-san’s house address again?” 

“Erm, I’m not too sure myself. Which street was it on again?” 


Hearing our conversation, the young driver turned back and told us politely: “Do you mean the 
big Tsuruya mansion? If that’s the case, you can leave everything to me.” 



Wow, you’re great, Tsuruya-san. It was a good thing she was the only one with the Tsuruya 
surname in this area. This way, I would be able to save back on the costs of making a phone call. 


The driver was a really talkative guy. He knew from a glance that we were high school students, 
and could even tell which grade we were in. He then proceeded to tell us about how his son was 
still an elementary school kid, and how he planned to send him to a well established private high 
school. Before we knew it, we had already arrived at Tsuruya-san’s mansion. 

After getting out of the cab, Asahina-san repeatedly thanked me and the driver, before 
disappearing within the walls of Tsuruya-san’s house. This way, it would be impossible for some 
new time traveler to harm Asahina-san. You can rest assured, Asahina-san, knowing that you’ll 
at least have someone to rely on. 

“Please head to the library.” 

I said to the driver, my tightened spirit finally being able to relax a little. 


After I reached the library, I found Nagato already standing by the front counter waiting for me. 
Standing upright while reading such a thick hardback, I really admired her for not feeling the 
least bit tired. 

“Sorry for the wait.” 

“It’s ok.” 

Nagato shut the book with a dull thud, before returning the book, which better resembled a 
dictionary to me, to the topmost shelf. After that, she walked to my side, as we hurriedly headed 
for the exit. 

Fumbling with my fingers, I finally managed to pull out the memory chip from my pocket. 
“Nagato, do you know what this is?” 

Nagato turned her head and looked at the memory chip in my fingers, not bothering to stop, as 
we headed out of the library. 

While I was returning to the library just a while ago, I had phoned Nagato to tell her about the 
past happenings, including the letters in my shoe locker, and the sneering bastard. 

“ I see.” 

Nagato nodded her head, without revealing a bit of emotion on her face, as she answered me in 
her usual monotonous voice. 



“This is a broken memory chip. However, the data inside is still undamaged.” 

As I looked at the chip again, I found that it was in fact broken in half. What was the use of it 
then, even though the data was preserved? 

What kind of data is held within? 

“Although the majority of the data is not lost, a major portion of it is nevertheless corrupted, and 
it seems that several crucial files have been either damaged or lost.” 

So it contains something even Nagato has no idea about. If Nagato didn’t know about it, no 
human possibly would. I wondered who I was supposed to mail this to. Was he even human? 

“Data restoration in progress. Attempting to replicate and substitute lost or damaged data with 
similar hits.” Nagato said, suggesting that she had already scanned the entire contents of the 
memory chip and was currently attempting to restore it to how it was before. 

“Inferences can be formed.” 

“This memory chip contains a myriad of damaged data. However, there are also two hundred and 
eighteen pieces of different data that has been recently input. This memory chip is meant to be 
inserted in a transmitter. If played in correct sequence, it is possible to formulate a basic theory.” 

As I was about to ask Nagato what was she saying, Nagato said simply: 

“Something that Asahina Mikuru is currently using: The basic foundation of time travel.” 

“However...” Nagato continued 

Even if someone obtained the data, based on our current level of technology, it would be 
impossible to deduce what the data meant. Although it is still insufficient for someone to 
formulate the basic theories of time travel based on it, it is crucial to time travel. Without it, it 
would be impossible for humans to travel through time. This chip contained the basic 
foundations for time travel, including the correct method to move through time planes and the 
sort. 

“Can someone come to this conclusion based on this memory chip?” 

“Yes.” Nagato replied emotionlessly, without slowing her pace. Since she didn’t, I obviously 
couldn’t either. Although I suddenly had an overwhelming desire to hand the memory chip to 
her, seeing that it was a crucial thread of the time travelers’ fate, I couldn’t bring myself to do it. 

“Of course, it could be a decoy.” 


Since Nagato was the least likely to joke about such things, I took it seriously. 



“This is not the only one. There must be other copies somewhere.” 


Come to think about it, that kinda makes sense. Who in their right minds would leave something 
important like this in the hands of someone who just happened to pick it up? This was probably a 
decoy, whereas the real chip was already being ferried safely to who-knows-where. Asahina-san 
(Big)’s smiling face, with an eye closed and her index finger by her lips, suddenly surfaced in 
my mind. However, knowing Asahina-san (Big), she could have had some difficulties in doing 
that, and as such secretly sent me to do it for her. 

“Oh, one more thing, Nagato.” 

I said as I hurried to catch up to the short haired silhouette. 

“Sorry for today.” 

I’m sure Nagato’s footsteps slowed down, as she lifted her head and looked at me. 

“It’s my fault for not telling you I would bring Asahina-san along today when I called you last 
night. Asking someone for help without explaining things clearly to them, how would I have felt 
if someone had done the same to me?” 

Nagato looked at me without saying anything, as if I was being interrogated by those cold eyes. 
After walking about ten steps, I surrendered. 

“Asahina-san told me to apologize to you. I’m sorry.” 

“ Is that so?” 

Nagato said as she looked at the road before her once again, and continued walking. About 5 
seconds later, she said again: 

“Is that so?” 


Just outside the train station, Haruhi and Asahina-san looked like tired puppies, as they leaned on 
each other for support. Koizumi stood beside them, once again with a smile on his face. 

After we had all gathered, it was time to report our findings of the day, as we entered the familiar 
coffee shop. Of course, the reports were always the same ever since last year. Although I did 
meet some strange guy, I didn’t tell Haruhi about him. Fortunately, “I didn’t discover anything 
strange or mysterious” didn’t warrant a scowl from Haruhi this time, which was something I was 
relatively new to. 

“It’s fine, days like this are bound to happen anyway.” 



I’d like to know what would happen other than days like this. 


Seeing the way Haruhi drank her cup of Cappuccino, I could tell that she is in a pretty good 
mood. “Let’s meet up again tomorrow. Those mysterious events are bound to not expect us 
looking for them for two days straight, and as such may let their guard down! I can feel 
something exciting happening tomorrow, like running into something paranormal just around the 
corner!” 

For some reason, I suddenly recalled that incident where Asahina-san and I were shouted at by 
some stranger from behind. It didn’t take a rocket scientist to figure out that he had been 
monitoring us for some time then, and upon thinking about this, my glass of milkshake seemed 
to abruptly turn into a glass of black coffee. Just you wait, you sneering bastard! The next time I 
see you, I’ll bring you straight to Nagato or Haruhi, and let you feel their wrath! 

I wonder if I really had a pained expression on my face, for Haruhi continuously looked at me, as 
if wanting to say something, but lacked the courage to say it. In the end, she didn’t do anything, 
other than reveal an unfathomable smile. 

“So, we meet again tomorrow, understand? I believe that if we change the day, the situation will 
change too. If we keep sticking to the same schedule, wouldn’t that be boring? I have a feeling 
that mysterious things are easier to find on Sunday. Maybe it’s because Sunday gives you the 
impression that it’s meant for lazing off, which is something those mysterious things may be 
doing! Just like how I feel that I won’t be so friendly on Monday, I’m sure mysterious things will 
be lazing about on Sunday! I’m sure of it!” 

So did that mean Haruhi’ s mood was set according to what day it was? Oh well, it’s not like I’ll 
be able to get any rest tomorrow, seeing that we’d be having yet another city-wide search. But 
what am I fretting about, didn’t Asahina-san (Michiru) already tell me this before? The only 
thing that soothed my heart was Asahina-san giggling, as she talked to Haruhi about something. 

“That’s all for today.” 

Haruhi then gave us the command to dismiss, before reminding us to meet up again tomorrow. 

I certainly had lots of things to think about today. 


As I rode back home on my bike, various thoughts raced through my mind, from the things 
Koizumi said to me in the morning, to the two Asahina-sans; from the chattering, unknown 
stranger, to Nagato’s expressionless face, and last but not least, Haruhi’s bemused expression in 
the coffee shop. For one who had never been settled on by so many worries before, this was 
certainly a plague of troubles. But of course, I wasn’t someone who would let his worries get 
ahead of him. I still had things to do, I reminded myself, as I trudged through the snow towards 
the convenience store. 



After purchasing an envelope and some stamps, I headed towards the shopping mall. 


I entered the pet shop, and began looking at the different dogs and cats present there. Unlike 
Shamisen, these animals were of pure breed, and I found myself strangely fascinated by them. As 
I tried my best to pull myself away from the urge to purchase one of them, I dragged my body 
towards the turtle counter, and found out that the Chinese Box Turtle was pretty close with the 
Golden Coin Turtle. If possible, I would like to bring Asahina-san here one day. I could picture 
her picking up one of those adorable puppies, her eyes sparkling in the process, as she made a 
shout of “Kyaa~”. That was something I had seen my sister do before, and I had no doubt 
Asahina-san would be the same. 

I lowered my gaze back at the counter, and began thinking, “Which one should I buy?” The 
turtles there were basically hunched together and resembled unmoving rocks. Each seemed to be 
fond of another, and I found it hard to separate them. I know that many people liked turtles, but 
sometimes I wonder if I really imagine too much. However, seeing that I was about to fling one 
of these poor guys into a freezing cold river tomorrow, I began questioning myself, which would 
they prefer? Being trapped in a small and crowded place like this, or set into the free but 
punishing wild? 

As if realizing I was staring at him, one of the golden coin turtles quickly turned away and 
attempted to escape. However, maybe it was due to his poor balancing, he stumbled and fell into 
the water. Being in the cold water was probably an unpleasant thing for him though, as he 
quickly climbed back out to the safety of the land. 

Alright, it’s you then. 

I quickly motioned for the shop assistant and pointed at that turtle, before telling her that I 
wished to purchase it. The shop assistant, whom I have no idea if she’s only working here or if 
this her family’s business, revealed a huge smile on her face, and quickly went to fetch a tank. 
After that, she began teaching me how to take care of turtles, what to feed them, etcetera. To tell 
you the truth, all of that didn’t matter to me, since all I wanted to do was fling this poor guy into 
the river. But seeing her explain to me so patiently, I had no idea what I was supposed to say. 
When she asked me why I wanted to buy a turtle for a pet, I had wanted to tell her that it was 
something I couldn’t tell her, something secret, something classified. 

In the end, as I tried to make up a suitable explanation as to why I had wanted to buy a turtle, the 
shop assistant had already decorated the tank with several marbles, filled it with water, picked up 
the golden coin turtle, and placed him gently into the tank. “This comes free with the turtle,” she 
said to me, smiling. 

She was smiling as she led me all the way to the cash register. She must really like turtles. 

“If there’s anything you would like to know about turtles, you can come and find me anytime.” 



After that, I paid for the turtle, since the tank and turtle pellets came free with the turtle. I felt 
sorry for the turtle, who would most likely be thrown into the river tomorrow. Too bad, buddy. 
That’s fate for you. 

As I felt a slight pain in my chest, I carried the tank out of the shopping mall, placed it into the 
basket in front of my bicycle, and started pedaling. Even though it was already dark, I couldn’t 
go home yet. There was somewhere else I had to go first. 

“Hi, Kyon-kun! I knew you would come today! Good evening!” 

Even though stars were shining in the sky, Tsuruya-san radiated a certain aura that made her 
stand out from them, as she opened her front door. I decided to park my bike inside Tsuruya- 
san’ s mansion this time. 

“Huh? What’s this? A souvenir?” Tsuruya-san said as her gaze fell upon the tank in my bicycle’s 
basket. “Oh, it’s a turtle, a turtle! Do you have them in your backyard too? I used to rear some in 
my pond, but then later felt sorry for them and released them into the wild!” 

That’s too bad Tsuruya-san, but this turtle isn’t a present for you. It’s something I got for 
Asahina-san to keep her company. 

“Oh, that’s too bad, Kyon-kun. I’m sorry I wasn’t able to accompany Michiru-chan to the library 
today. Something important came up, you see.” 

I parked my bike into Tsuruya-san’s front yard, before proceeding to take the tank out from the 
basket. I then asked Tsuruya-san: 

“You had something to do again today?” 

“Yea, we had to pay respects to one of my dead ancestors. This time, it was my father’s 
grandfather, as my various aunts and uncles talked about the old times before his grave. 

However, from what I heard, he used to be a really fun and jolly man. All of them looked as if 
they were enjoying themselves by recalling the good old days!” 

Tsuruya-san had always loved to talk, and this time was no exception. 

“Did anything worrisome happen to Michiru-chan? If you’re really that worried, why don’t you 
stay here for the night? I’ll be sleeping beside you too! Wouldn’t you like that -nyoro?” 

Tsuruya-san said this without looking the slightest bit nervous. She was like Cinderella asking 
her fairy godmother for a dress; asking me at my moment of weakness. Such simple traps won’t 
work on me, Tsuruya-san, and it seemed that Tsuruya-san understood that too. There was no way 
she would have said something like that otherwise. 


“No thanks.” 



I’m sure Tsuruya-san understood what I meant. Even if I agreed, I’m sure that being sandwiched 
in between two ravishing upperclassmen would probably derive me of all sleep. I’m tired 
enough, thank you. I don’t want another sleepless night. 

Perhaps due to the cold weather, the golden coin turtle had withdrawn itself into its shell, and 
was hunched in a corner. Compared to throwing it into the freezing cold river, I would have 
preferred to let it live in Tsuruya-san’s pond, but alas, there was no way I could ignore Asahina- 
san (Big)’s order. 

“K-Kyon-kun?” 

Just as I was about to enter her room, I heard Asahina-san gently call my name, as she came out 
to greet me. There’s no way I would come for a visit after we’ve just barely parted. It’s just 
because I forgot to give you something that I came back to hand it to you. 

Handing the tank to Asahina-san, I said, “Can you please bring this along with you tomorrow?” 
Hopefully she still remembered the contents of letter #4: “Tomorrow, please throw this turtle 
into the river before 10.50 am.” This was the last task I had to accomplish with Asahina-san. 
Tomorrow, we would all meet again for a city-wide search at 9. After that, we would head to the 
coffee shop, have breakfast, and draw lots again. This would take presumably an hour. If 
Asahina-san could bring the turtle to the river for me, it would save me much time and energy. 
Plus, if I brought this to the station, Haruhi and the others would probably ask me what was I up 
to. 

“Erm, yeah, that’s it. . .” Asahina-san said as she took the tank from me. “Kyon-kun didn’t bring 
anything to the meeting on Sunday either.” 

For a moment I thought I heard a dry cough. I turned, only to see Tsuruya-san place some snacks 
on the table, before closing her eyes, as if saying ‘I didn’t hear anything’. 

“Do you need me to send Michiru-chan there tomorrow?” 

“Are you fine with that?” 

After hearing my counter-question, Tsuruya-san answered coolly: “Ahaha- I happen to have 
more family affairs tomorrow, so I’m afraid I can’t send her there in person. But don’t worry. I’ll 
have someone drive Michiru-chan there, okay? Just tell me what time you wish for.” 

“10.45 am tomorrow, near the riverbank where cherry-blossom trees grow. Asahina-san knows 
about the place, too. Thanks a lot.” 

Provided Asahina-san doesn’t contract amnesia, she should remember the bench by the cherry- 
blossom trees. 


“OK, you can leave it all to me! You can hail a cab if you want to come back!” Tsuruya-san said 
as she beat her chest proudly. 



“I understand your feelings Kyon-kun. Choosing not to stroll by the busy streets, where you 
would meet obstacles every 200 meters, that’s a wise choice! You should feel happy about this, 
Michiru-chan!” 

I felt that Tsuruya-san was the only one feeling happy about this. 

“I think Michiru already has a crush on someone. I’m kinda worried about her, since she’s so 
naive and all. Now if I knew who the person was, and if he was a good guy or not, then I would 
be greatly relieved.” 

Upon hearing that statement, I felt uneasy. I think about those things everyday. Every single day. 
“Ahaha- Isn’t there any way to make Kyon-kun calm down?” 

Even though I wanted to say “There is,” I couldn’t bring myself to do it. Asahina-san was 
already blushing furiously, apparently embarrassed by Tsuruya-san’s words, as she twirled her 
fingers in her lap. I had decided long ago to protect Asahina-san, not only the Asahina-san who 
currently resided in my time plane, but all other Asahina-sans. I don’t care what happens to me 
then. Apparently, Tsuruya-san knew of this too. 

This is the turtle we’re going to use tomorrow. That was what ran through my mind, as I looked 
at Asahina-san, hoping to relay that message to her, while silently gulping down Tsuruya-san’s 
tea. Asahina-san looked at the turtle swimming around in the tank, and let out a series of soft 
giggles. Would this Asahina-san remain here forever? If things continue on like this, Asahina- 
san (Small) will be dragged in this too. Eight days — No wait, three days now — later, would I 
really have to send Asahina-san (small) back to the past? 

Thinking about this, I suddenly thought of the series of letters I had been receiving recently - #3, 
#4 and #6. Why had #6 suddenly popped up behind #4? By now, I had no doubt that this was not 
a printing error. #5 must be out there somewhere. It was only that I hadn’t received it yet. 

I hadn’t told Asahina-san about letter #6 yet, simply because it had specifically told me to keep it 
a secret from Asahina-san. “When everything is over, please head over to the bench where you 
and I met during the festival of Tanabata. I’ll be waiting.” 

I was grateful that Tsuruya-san had served me a cup of expensive tea, and that she didn’t ask me 
anything about the turtle. As I looked at both of my upperclassmen, I began thinking, what did 
‘when everything is over’ mean? Was it when Asahina-san (small) was sent to the past, thus 
completing the cycle? It was, after all, a predetermined event for Asahina-san (Big). Does it 
mean that I get to see her when I finish cleaning up this mess? 

‘You and I’ was a no brainer. The ‘I’ in question was without a doubt Asahina-san. During the 
Tanabata festival four years ago, I had met the same person twice, though they were different 
version of me. 



My heart jumped as I thought about this. When could I reveal all of this to Asahina-san? The day 
I tell Asahina-san ‘Actually, it was your future self who put those letters in my shoe locker’, was 
it a predetermined event too? 

Besides, just how much could I reveal to this current Asahina-san? From the orders I had 
received from the future, all I had been doing so far was make Asahina-san commit crimes 
together with me. Was this the right thing to do? 

I shook my head lightly. It doesn’t matter now, does it? Besides, I wasn’t used to thinking. Is this 
an aftereffect of meeting that strange guy? 

Nagato’s words suddenly rang in my mind - There is no such thing as a win-win situation. There 
was no point worrying about the future. It is my duty and responsibility to shape my own future. 
Sometimes, I would curse my past self for making stupid mistakes, but I would never curse my 
future self. All I have done is do what I had to do, leaving everything for time to decide. That 
was the only thing I could do. 

It was my future, after all. 


After staying at Tsuruya-san’s house for a little longer, I got on my bike and pedaled back home. 
Upon returning home, I found Shamisen sleeping peacefully on my bed. The only time he would 
look so peaceful was when he was sleeping. How I envy him. I don’t think even a world plunged 
into chaos would prevent Shamisen from sleeping peacefully. 

“Everything depends on tomorrow. . .” 

Tomorrow we begin part two of Haruhi’s exclusive two-day city wide search and commence the 
releasing of the turtle. I had done all necessary preparations, and there was nothing else I could 
do now. I had searched for buried treasure, dug holes, sent unknown people to the hospital, 
moved rocks, and even mailed memory chips — Oh wait, that’s something I haven’t done yet. 
Best get it done before I forget again. 

Using the envelope I had bought from the convenience store, I copied the address from letter #3, 
inserted the broken memory chip, sealed it tight, and attached some stamps. After that, I once 
again put on my jacket and headed out. Oh, and of course I didn’t put my address on the back of 
the envelope. 

After cycling all the way to the post office and depositing it into the mailbox, I silently prayed 
that nothing would happen to it while it was being mailed. I don’t want to have another matter to 
worry about, Asahina-san (Big). Everything should have a smooth start, and a good end. Now 
that the end was near, I hoped that nothing happened, from now onwards, up until I met Asahina- 
san (Big) when everything was over, at the bench of the Tanabata Festival. 



END OF CHAPTER 5 


Chapter 6 

Chapter Six 


The fateful Sunday had finally arrived. 

Like yesterday, I arrived by bike at the square in front of the station before nine; as usual, 
everyone was there already; as usual, we drew lots in the coffee shop nearby in which I footed 
the bill; and as expected, I was drawn together with Nagato. Nagato only needed to be told once, 
and she would never forget what needs to be done, and it's unlikely that she would make a 
mistake. I ought to learn from her in this aspect. I would have to especially keep my promises 
with Nagato no matter what. Since Nagato has always treated me well, after all. 

As I inquired frequently for the time in the coffee shop, I noticed Haruhi was now even more 
giddy than yesterday, but I had no time to care about that. Ever since the treasure hunt, she's 
always been like that, I guess that lull at the beginning of the month was just her feeling unwell. 

As Haruhi whispered in Asahina-san's ear, she revealed a meaningful smile. Now that was quite 
a surreal scene. I really wanted to know what Haruhi and Asahina-san were smiling so happily 
about, but as Koizumi and Nagato's expression remained the same as usual, I don't suppose 
anything out of the ordinary will happen. 

As I emptied the remnants of my Viennese cappuccino, Haruhi slid the bill before my eyes and 
stood up. 

The time is ten o'clock in the morning. 

Even if I were to walk to that cheery blossom filled path, I would still have plenty of time. 


As we were to meet at noon, taking into consideration the time it takes to release the turtle and 
the round trip back, there was still plenty of time to spare. 

As I saw Haruhi, Asahina-san and Koizumi walk away, I said to Nagato, 

"I'm sorry, but can you go to the library on your own today? I'll come pick you up in an hour," 

"I see." 

Nagato placed her coat hood over her head and replied without even looking at me, 

"Nagato, do you have any idea what me and Asahina-san are doing?" 

"Something necessary." 

Nagato murmured, and headed off towards the library. I hesitated for a while and went after her, 
"Necessary for whom?" 

"For you and Asahina Mikuru." 

And you're not included? What about Haruhi and Koizumi? 


Nagato continued to walk forward without saying anything, finally a plain voice came out from 
behind that hood of hers, 

"Maybe we will become involved, though I am not sure yet." 

Perhaps sensing that I look dejected as I stand there, Nagato suddenly turned around, and looked 
at me with her glass-like eyes, 

"However " 

Her hair fluttered in the wind, 

"We should know very soon. When that happens I would take action. So would Koizumi Itsuki." 

Ever since I knew Nagato, her way of expression has always been to jump from point to point 
without linking them together. 

"Our ways forward are the same. For me. And also for you." 

As though she'd reached a conclusion, Nagato suddenly turned back to walk silently away again. 
This time I didn't follow. 



Thanks, Nagato, 


As it was kind of embarrassing, I said it very softly. I wasn't sure whether the hooded figure that 
was slowly walking farther away heard me, but I'm sure she would understand my feelings. I do 
not believe that Nagato would not possess such empathy. 

This also confirmed something for me. Though we may be different to various extents, I truly 
believe that I along with Nagato, Koizumi and Asahina-san are trustees to each other. At the 
center was Haruhi shining as bright as a star, while we were the planets circling around her orbit. 
Nothing is ever predictable. If one day Mars and Venus were to suddenly disappear, I'm sure 
people would be feeling lonely, at least the astronomers would be troubled. Before confirming 
whether Martians or Venusians even exist, I certainly do not wish to find our neighbors just 
disappearing like that without even a warning. There were surprisingly many instances when you 
would go into a panic after finding out things that you take for granted had suddenly vanished. 

Take my automatic pencil while I was doing my exams for example Forget it, you wouldn't 

want to waste your time hearing my stupid analogies. Anyway, I never again wanted to go 
through that sense of loss I experienced last December. 

As to which road I should take, it was all determined beforehand. 


I arrived by the bank of the stream in thirty minutes. The scene of the cherry blossoms 
flourishing wildly in autumn was nowhere to be seen. Only the trees with their naked branches 
remained standing, awaiting for the arrival of spring. I walked along the path towards the long 
bench that overlooked the low-lying river. This was a typical stream where the sediment around 
causes the bank to be on a higher altitude. The water surface was nearly three meters below the 
bank. The structure of the bank was well constructed, giving people a neat impression. As there 
wasn’t a lot of water in the stream, not to mention it was only a few centimeters deep, as well as 
being downstream, the flow of the stream was relatively calm. By summer, there’ll be merry 
scenes of kids going down the stream chasing little fishes around. On the other hand, with this 
being a chilly winter day, no one would want to approach the freezing water. 

The shore was normally not as empty as the stream, but the long bench where I sat listening to 
Asahina-san proclaiming that she is a time traveler was empty today. Though it was a Sunday, it 
was such a cold day on a morning before the warm sun was shining overhead, no one would 
come to take a walk by the bank. The cherry blossom path was nearly empty, save a dog walking 
idyllically followed by its master apparently freezing to death and walking silently. 

As I was about to show off my acting skills and pretend to be a philosophical high school student 
listening quietly to the sound of the stream 


Kyon-kun, 



Asahina-san walked up the river bank from the steps facing the road. Looks like she remembered 
to bring the plastic box carrying the turtle. I looked further away and found what seemed to be a 
luxurious limousine driving off quietly. That must be from Tsuruya-san’s family. I must remind 
myself to thank the driver, as well. 

It was 10:44 in the morning. By the time I reached the edge of the stream with Asahina-san, the 
watch had just turned to forty- five minutes, our timing was perfect. 

"The water looks very cold " 

Asahina-san gazed at the water flowing very slowly while bringing the box before her and 
looked at the turtle, 

"I wonder if this turtle can grow up normally?" 

Showing kindness even to a small animal, our sempai continued, 

"Please wait a while," 

She placed the box on the ground and opened the lid. She then took out the box of pet food from 
her pocket. The little turtle stuck its neck out towards the roof which had suddenly disappeared 
and looked hesitant. When Asahina-san brought the box of pet food closer to it, and it quickly 
swallowed the food in one gulp. After just one night, this turtle had already begun to get used to 
living with humans, Asahina-san’s kindness surely could reach no bounds. 

Although Asahina-san was reluctant to part with the little turtle, I’m sorry to say that time’s up. 
There was only three minutes remaining till 10:50. 

"Remember to come back in spring," I said gently to the little turtle as I picked it up. The little 
turtle did not resist and laid quietly on my palm, not moving an inch. 

"When we meet again, I’m sure he will have grown bigger." 

Though there was no proof of that, that’s all I could say. I avoided Asahina-san’s gaze, who was 
looking very worried for the little turtle, and made a posture about to toss it out. Just as I was 
about to make a knuckleball pitch 

"Excuse me," 

A voice suddenly called from behind. I nearly fell into the stream while holding the turtle. After 
stepping forward clumsily for a while, I finally found my footing and turned around. 

"Thanks for saving me last time, Onii-san, Onee-san," 


A young voiced, bespectacled looking boy was bowing gratefully to us. It was the boy that I 
saved from the claws of death last month in a potential traffic accident. I call him the 



Bespectacled Boy. Besides, he lives very near Haruhi’s place, so Haruhi would occasionally 
become his stand-in governess. 

"Ah " 

Asahina-san looked quite surprised, and so was I, since I never thought I would ever see him 
again. 

"May I ask what are you doing here?" 

The Bespectacled Boy asked with a curious-looking expression that was miles apart from that of 
my sister as he looked at me and Asahina-san, and then at the turtle in my hand. I was about to 
ask what you’re doing here. 

"I’m on my way to cram school." 

I was about to ask when the boy had already answered on his own, pointing to the schoolbag he 
was carrying behind his back, 

"I always walk through this way to cram school, it was the same that time as well," 

The boy bowed once again, and then with a puzzling look, gazed at the box on the ground and 
the shelled reptile crawling around on my hand, 

"Is Onii-san going to release the turtle to the wild?" 

"Yeah sort of." 

After answering, I suddenly felt consumed by guilt once again. Both Asahina-san and this boy 
had eyes revealing their compassion for the little turtle, and asked quietly: "Why do you want to 
toss such a small turtle into the stream on such a cold winter’s day?" It’s not like I wanted to do 
this either, but the problem is that I have to do this. 

The watch indicates that there was now less than one minute before the indicated time, I no 
longer had time to look confused, I quickly thought of an idea and said, 

"Hey kid, are you allowed to keep pets at home? I mean, if you take this guy home, would your 
parents be mad at you?" 

The boy pushed his glasses and said, 

"I don’t think so, as long as I take care of him," 


Really? Okay then, wait here, 



I picked up the turtle on its back and knelt down beside the stream. The shore we were on was 
three meters from the water surface, so it wasn’t that far. And as the stream was flowing slowly, 

I wasn’t worried that the turtle would be washed away. 

I gently dropped the turtle just like letting go of a feather, trying to reduce the impact of its fall. 
"Ah!" Asahina-san exclaimed. 

Sploosh! The turtle fell into the water. Creating ripples of concentric circles, it slowly sank into 
the water and was now going downstream. 

The boy stared at such a scene, he didn’t even dare breathe once. 

After sinking for a while, the turtle kicked to the shallow surface and re-emerged out of the 
water. Apparently looking troubled at the ripples that it has caused, it drifted for a while before it 
began to paddle. It finally climbed up a rock nearby and stuck out its neck. It didn’t seem like it 
was saying goodbye to us, more like thinking how it has expanded its horizons from a turtle’s 
perspective. 

Eventually, the ripples subsided and only the turtle remains standing on the rock. 

I had no idea how accurate Asahina-san’ s (big) calculations were, but I have fulfilled her request 
of "throwing the turtle into the stream". What I do with the turtle afterwards was solely up to my 
discretion. I convinced myself while taking off my socks. Rolling up my trousers just to be safe, 

I began to wade into the water, leaving Asahina-san and the boy with their eyes widened. The 
water was really freezing cold, and the surface was filled with some slimy algae-like stuff which 
felt gross, but as I’ve always played in the stream with my cousins every time I visit them in the 
countryside, this was nothing. 

"Sorry about that, little turtle." 

The turtle lifted its tiny head. When I stuck out my hand, it didn’t attempt to escape, and allowed 
me to grab it. Perhaps it wanted to say to me: "If you’re going to pick me up, then don’t toss me 
in the first place." It’s a good thing I wasn’t fluent in the turtle-language. As I returned to the 
shore with the turtle in my hand, and placed him back in the box, the coldness in my feet went 
straight to my brain. Man, I’m so gonna get diarrhea when I get back. 

I sat on the ground and lifted my feet above to shake off the excess water and said, 

"Kid, this turtle’s yours now." 

"Can I really have it?" 

An observer to all this a few paragraphs ago, the Bespectacled Boy now asked hesitatingly, 


Doesn’t Onii-san have a special reason to release this turtle into the wild? 



I knew this kid was asking due to his curiosity, but like the turtle itself, I don’t have any answers 
that can satisfy that curiosity of yours. Since even I’m trying to find an explanation for the 
meaning of my own actions. 

"It doesn’t matter anymore. Even the turtle would feel troubled upon being released into the wild 
in the middle of winter. If you’re willing to take him, I’m sure he’ll be better off than having to 
soak himself in a freezing river." 

Will that do, Asahina-san? Though you said that the instructions from the future has to be 
absolutely obeyed, my actions had not gone against the instructions at all. Despite that, I was still 
a bit worried, but I saw that Asahina-san, who has been kind to little animals, had already begun 
handing the box of pet food to the boy. 

"This is the turtle’s basic meals, take it as well," 

She then said like an elder sister, 

"Promise me that you’ll take care of him." 

"I promise," 

The boy replied slowly, but not in a disrespectful way. He received the plastic box and box of pet 
food from Asahina-san, and held them tightly with his arms, 

"I’ll take good care of him," 

He said passionately. Actually, you don’t have to be so determined about it. 

"Oh yeah, kid. I want you to promise one more thing." 

There was a need to take a precaution. It was because we didn’t take this precaution the last time 
around, both Asahina-san and I got punished severely by Haruhi. That painful memory still 
lingers in my mind till now. 

"There’s a girl called Suzumiya Haruhi that lives near your place, right?" 

"Yes, Suzumiya-nee-san has always taken good care of me." 

For some reason, I shuddered at the name "Suzumiya-nee-san". 

"You must not tell Haruhi anything about what happened today. My presence here with Asahina- 

san that is the Bunny Girl nee-san, and us giving you this turtle are strictly confidential. Can 

you keep a secret?" 


Yes. 



The boy nodded very solemnly. I guess I can rest easy now. Asahina-san now asked as well, 


"Are you sure you’re alright with taking this turtle back with you? Wouldn’t your mother or 

family say anything about not accepting things from strangers?" 

"Don’t worry. I’ll find an excuse." 

The boy straightened his back and said, 

"I’ll tell them that as the people doing experiments on this turtle didn’t need it anymore, they 
were about to throw it away when I happened to pass by. As I felt pity for him, I asked them to 
give it to me I’m sure dad and mom would let me have him," 

This kid sure was reliable. I really wish he would teach my sister a thing or two. They were both 
about the same age, but the difference was so great. This must have to do with the environments 
that they grew up in. 

"Then, I have to go now, my cram school’s about to start," 

The polite boy bowed courteously to us once again. Asahina-san patted his head and said, 

"Don’t forget the promise you made last time. Be careful when crossing the roads. Don’t let any 
accidents happen to you, and study hard. That way, you’ll become a very useful person. And a 
very important person, as well " 

Looking at Asahina-san sticking out her pinky, the boy revealed a shyness that suited his age, 
and hooked his pinky onto hers with trepidation. I couldn’t help but smile at seeing the figures of 
Asahina-san and this boy, one big and one small, standing together. 

The boy then let go, embarrassed, and walked off carrying the plastic box as though it were some 
valuable treasure. Several times he turned around to bow to us. Asahina-san never stopped 
waving, until he had completely disappeared from our view, and only when I had finally put my 
socks on over my dried feet and put on my shoes, did she put down her hands. 

"Phew " 

Asahina-san sighed deeply. For her, or I should say for the future version of Asahina-san, this 
boy seemed like a very important figure. If I were to travel back to the Edo Period and came face 
to face with a historical figure, I would probably feel the same way. I didn’t even need to ask, 
that’s got to be Classified Information. 

"Phew," 

I too breathed a deep sigh. Rather than a depressed sigh, it was more like a sigh of relief that it 
was all over. My mission with this Asahina-san has now come to a close. The empty can prank, 
the gourd-shaped rock, the mysterious memory device, and the turtle. 



The question was, what do we do next. I haven’t got a clue at all. The final letter #6 made 
absolutely no mention of anything. As long as Asahina-san doesn’t go out on her own and 
continues to live in Tsuruya-san’s bungalow, then I shouldn’t need to worry. As the next two 
days were free, this Asahina-san would eventually return to our original time period. In contrast, 

I would need to instruct the present Asahina-san to travel back to the past, but that’s the day after 
tomorrow. For now, I felt a weight was lifted off my shoulders. 

"Asahina-san, though you’ve only just arrived, I think you should go take some rest at Tsuruya- 
san’s place. We’ll take a taxi and send you back, I’ll then go back to the library to pick up 
Nagato." 

"Okay " 

Asahina-san said absent mindedly and walked off. Under my guidance, we reached the road that 
runs parallel to the cherry blossom path. Standing by the pavement waiting for a taxi, Asahina- 
san didn’t speak a lot, and seemed rather depressed. 

While waiting for the taxi, I was also paying attention to my surroundings, for fear that the 
Sneering Bastard from yesterday would cause trouble again. It was obvious that bastard didn’t 
come with good intentions, but as he made it too obvious, he certainly didn’t feel like a scary 
enemy. To be frank, he hardly made me shiver at all. If it were Koizumi who approached us 
using that bastard’s manner of speech, I would have felt extremely threatened. If he hadn’t 
picked the wrong time to make his appearance, then he was probably playing the wrong sort of 
character. 

Aha! I find myself to be more and more reliable now. That’s to be expected, for the past year, 
I’ve been involved in all sorts of strange occurrences, allowing my vision to expand and my 
mind to be more open. My life has been put in peril occasionally, but it’s different now. Though 
I wasn’t as determined as Nagato, I too went through the experience of having to decide what I 
really wanted. I’ll never misjudge my role and position again. 

Though there were hardly any taxis and few cars on the road, it was quite a pleasure in itself to 
be standing all alone together with Asahina-san, so I didn’t feel anxious with the wait at all. But 
as I’d already told Nagato to go to the library herself, I would be doing her an injustice if I didn’t 
go pick her up as soon as things were settled. 

It was pointless worrying. Maybe I shouldn’t even be distracted. 

Because in the next moment, I witnessed an unbelievable scene. 


At that time, I didn’t check the time on my watch. I never had the time to anyway, so I didn’t 
know the exact time when it happened, I just knew that it was sometime before eleven. 



Here was what happened: 

As I waited with Asahina-san on the pavement on the left side of the county road, trying to see if 
there were any taxis coming our way, a big car came driving slowly. As it wasn’t some highway, 
so there was nothing wrong with it driving so slowly. Truth be told, at that moment I paid no 
attention to it. 

Yet that approaching car decelerated even more and, without even making a signal, stopped right 
in front of us. 

"Huh?" I suddenly felt suspicious, I don’t think I’ve felt this suspicious before. 

This was because the door to that minivan had opened suddenly, and a hand from within had 
dragged Asahina-san into the car within a few seconds. 

"WAH !?" 

By the time I realized Asahina-san had screamed, the green minivan had drove off in full speed 
without even closing its door. The plume of smoke it emitted felt as though it was mocking my 
slow reaction. By the time I looked properly, the car had already driven off to the other end of 
the road, and it became a small dot in the distance. 

"What the " 

It only took me about 0.2 seconds to recover my senses. The car had already disappeared from 
my vision. 

Hold it, hold it, HOLD IT! 

What the hell just happened? Asahina-san had vanished before my eyes. She was dragged into 
the car, and that car had sped off and was now out of sight, leaving me standing on the roadside 
all alone Just what was this? 

"Kidnapped !?" 

And right under my nose as well. I could’ve stopped it if I had reached my arm out, even if it 
meant I had to grab her body. Asahina-san, who was standing so close to me just a few seconds, 
was no longer here. Can something this ridiculous actually happen!? 

"Damn it!! I don’t believe this!!" 

I don’t think I’ve been this terrified since finding out Haruhi had disappeared from the classroom 
last December. The last time I was this shocked was when I discovered that Asakura had 
replaced Haruhi in sitting behind me. 


Shit! 



Was it that Sneering Bastard!? Was he behind all this!? If it really was, then I had 
underestimated him. Could it be that his terrible timing in appearance and choice of character 
was all just a ruse to distract me? If that was really just a trap to divert my attention by thinking 
he posed no threat at all 

"ASAHINA-SAN!!!" 

A loud sound vibrated my eardrums. It wasn’t the sound of the wind blowing through the cherry 
blossom trees, but the sound coming out of my now completely pale face. 

I took out my cell-phone, I could only rely on help from others now. Anyone would do, as long 
as I can bring Asahina-san back, it didn’t matter whether it was the police, fire fighters, the Self- 
Defence Forces or even the Chamber of Commerce. My fingers began to push the numbers on 
their own, not even knowing who I was dialing. I only knew that I heard a dial tone on the other 
end and someone answering it, 

"What now, Kyon?" 

It was Haruhi’s voice. As it all happened too suddenly, not to mention I wasn’t completely back 
to my senses, I ended up calling Haruhi. By this time my brain was already not functioning 
properly, 

"Haruhi we’ve got a problem! Asahina-san’s been kidnapped!" 

I called for reinforcements without even thinking 

"Wha? What are you talking about?" 

Haruhi’s voice sounded very casual. Feeling anxious, I yelled once again, 

"I said Asahina-san’s been kidnapped! If we don’t hurry and rescue her " 

"Hey, Kyon," 

Haruhi spoke in a nearly elegant voice, 

"I don’t know what you’re trying to pull, but before you decide to make a prank call, you ought 
to sort out your script and try not to be too ridiculous. What’s wrong with your brain? Saying 
stuff like this. Mikuru-chan’s standing right next to me. If you had said it was Yuki, then I might 
have still believed you." 

"No! It’s not Nagato! It’s Asahina-san " 


By this time I suddenly realized, it was useless no matter how I explained it to Haruhi. That’s 
right, right now in this time period, Asahina-san was with Haruhi. Only that it was the original 



Asahina-san from this time period, and not the Asahina-san that appeared in the broom closet. 
Speaking of that Asahina-san, the one that just got abducted by the car 

"You fail for making such a lame prank that gets exposed so easily. Besides, pranks are supposed 
to be funny. I don’t have time for this, you idiot Kyon!" 

"No! Wait " 

The phone was cut off. 

My hand trembled as I held the cell-phone. I shouldn’t have called Haruhi in such a situation 
where every second counts. I didn’t even need her to tell me that I was an idiot. Even when 
asking for reinforcements, I shouldn’t have asked Haruhi for them 

The phone began ringing. 

Without even finding out who it was, I answered it. 

"Hello?" 

It was Koizumi’s voice. Before I could speak 

"Don’t worry. Suzumiya-san and Asahina-san aren’t with me right now. Well, I told them I 
needed to go to the bathroom and excused myself," 

Who cares about that!? That’s not the issue here, what’s important is 

"Koizumi! Asahina-san has " 

"I understand the situation. Leave it to me, they should be coming to you soon," 

"Who’s coming to me soon?" 

Feeling very baffled, I lifted my head. As if on cue, a taxi had stopped right in front of me. It was 
a black taxi. I wasn’t sure which cab company it was from, but it seemed familiar. I remember 
riding on such a taxi when Koizumi conned me to visit some "Avatars". 

The back door of the taxi opened. 

"Get in, hurry!" 

The passenger in the back seat waved to me, and I quickly leapt into the car. Sitting in the 
familiar car was a familiar figure. Before I could digest the situation, the door had already closed 
and I was instantly thrust back to my seat by the sudden force caused by the car moving off. 


We’ll now begin the pursuit, 



A clear crisp voice said by my side, it sounded familiar. As I’ve met her during the summer and 
winter, I couldn’t have so easily forgotten her name. 

"M, Mori Sonou-san?" 

"It’s been a while," 

It’s actually only been a month since we last met, so it wasn’t exactly a while. But, what was 
Mori-san doing here? And she wasn’t dressed in the familiar maid uniform, but in an office lady 
attire that could be found everywhere. 

Mori-san revealed her usual smile and said, 

"Didn’t Koizumi explain to you before? I too am a member of the ‘Organization’. The maid was 
just one of my disguises, and that was only limited to the time I spent with you." 

As though trying to assure me, Mori-san turned her gaze towards the driver’s seat and nodded, 

"And it’s not just me. He is the same as well," 

Lifting up the left hand which was on the steering wheel, the driver exchanged glances with me 
through the rear- view mirror. 

"Arakawa-san " 

"Greetings." 

He was a butler who could cook brilliantly before, but now he was a taxi driver driving at top 
speed. The elderly gentleman now said, 

"There is a limit to being aggressive. They’ve gone too far by kidnapping that adorable lady. We 
won’t let them get away with this." 

As he stepped on the gas pedal once again, I was thrust even further into my seat. A fear began to 
creep on me as I realized I was riding in a car that was driving at a terrifying speed, yet at the 
same time, my stiff brain was beginning to become flexible once again. 

Mori-san and Arakawa-san. I knew they were both Koizumi's accomplices, I also knew the maid 
and butler appearance was just their part-time job. Yet I never thought I would meet them again 
in this situation, it’s as though they had expected Asahina-san to be kidnapped and sent a car to 
support me Aha, that’s it, 

"Now it all makes sense," 


I finally managed to speak, 



"So you guys and Koizumi knew Asahina-san would get kidnapped, and so have been closely 
watching us while standing by in case it happens, right?" 

"On the contrary," 

Mori-san said while giving a female version of Koizumi’s smile, 

"Our initial target was them, not you. When we saw their car approaching you, we knew things 
were getting bad. We did not expect them to take such an action." 

"Who do you mean by ‘they’?" 

The image of the Sneering Bastard from yesterday appeared in my head. 

"Didn’t Koizumi tell you this as well? The people that have kidnapped Asahina-san are of a 
group hostile to our ‘Organization’." 

If that's the case, then it didn't matter whether they were time travelers or espers, their actions 
were equally unforgivable. 

"Why would they want to kidnap Asahina-san?" 

"Maybe they were getting desperately anxious. They probably resorted to such means in order to 
secure their privileged position in the future." 

Privileged position? 

"Yes. I think they plan to use her as a bargaining chip with the future authorities. The problem 
for them is that they've got the wrong person. They should really be kidnapping the Asahina 
Mikuru-san that is with Koizumi right now," 

Mori-san described something unbelievable as though it were a daily occurrence. 

"It doesn't seemed like they had planned this action properly, and this was only decided hastily. 
We would need to investigate why they would suddenly decide to take action now." 

The appearance of that Sneering Bastard was also quite sudden. A new group of time travelers, 
could that be caused by that bastard's appearance? 

As though able to read my mind, Mori-san nodded and said, 

"The fact that they've joined forces this time means they're serious. We cannot simply do nothing 
about it." 


Excuse me, is the 'Organization' 



I stopped short of saying "my ally". 


"Standing on our side?" 

"We simply wish to maintain the status quo, is that not enough?" 

As there was nothing to bargain about in the first place, I didn't know whether that was too little 
or too much. Those bastards, the people that had kidnapped Asahina-san, just what were they 
thinking? Or rather, who on earth were they? If they weren't on our side, were they our enemy? 
And if so, what kind of enemy? 

"They consist of a rival group hostile to the 'Organization', a band of time travelers opposing 
Asahina Mikuru-san's faction, and an extra-terrestrial cosmic entity different from the one that 
created Nagato Yuki-san," 

Mori-san explained clearly to me, 

"We had a feeling that they would join forces sooner or later, after hearing Koizumi's report 
about the incident in the snow mountain. Those three forces are probably forming an alliance, no, 
we believe they have already formed an alliance. Suzumiya Haruhi-san was a gamble worth 
taking for them, it's either win-all or lose-all," 

The whole car shook as though leaping upwards. Upon reaching a cross-junction, the black taxi 
charged through the traffic lights without stopping, and didn't even slow down when going 
through an S-curve, continuing to move ahead at top speed. 

"Then, Koizumi and you guys " 

Already feeling dizzy, I said, 

"Already knew that there was another Asahina-san? And you also knew that this Asahina-san 
from a week later would stay in Tsuruya-san's place?" 

"If it weren't for her, the other Asahina Mikuru-san would have been kidnapped instead, and it 
would have been right in front of Suzumiya Haruhi-san's eyes." 

Things would really be bad if that were to happen. No one could know just what action Haruhi 
would take. 

"In that case " 

The Asahina-san from the future was acting as a decoy for the present Asahina-san. In other 
words, in order to protect her past self from getting kidnapped, she would have to allow her 
future self to be kidnapped instead, right? So that's how it is. It was necessary for Asahina 
(Michiru)-san to travel back to the past after all. To be honest, I could have handled all those 
instructions from Asahina-san (big) all on my own without any problem, but now I understood 



why she wanted me to bring Asahina-san along, or there would be no meaning to it. The other 
time traveler. The turtle and the boy. And the kidnapping. Only Asahina-san (big) would know 
the full story. 

As I was busy going into deep thought 

"Don't let them out of your sight, Arakawa," 

"I know." 

Their voices now directed my attention to the front of the car, I could now see the teal minivan 
ahead of us. Both vehicles were now cruising at insane speeds. Ever since the pursuit began, it 
wouldn't have been surprising if there were three to four accidents on the way. Judging from his 
drifting techniques while disregarding the traffic signals, Arakawa-san's driving skills were well 
beyond that of a normal butler, but more like that of a WRC driver. 

The kidnappers' car now headed towards the mountains and very soon went past the forest park, 
where we had our outdoor shooting for our movie back in autumn, and went even further north. 
There was nothing but mountainous roads there. Damn! Just what do they plan to do with 
Asahina-san in such a god forsaken place? Unforgivable! 

My gaze remains fixed on the rear of that teal minivan. It was the same car as the one last time. 
The exact same model as the one that nearly ran down the Bespectacled Boy last month. There's 
no mistake about it. The guys on that car were from a different world from ours. 

Driving at an insane speed, the kidnappers' car now left the tarmac road and entered a really 
mountainous road. Arakawa switched gears elegantly and followed them closely behind. The 
roads were basically carved out from the edge of a cliff, and the curves were just wide enough to 
accommodate two cars drifting past it, they weren't even equipped with safety rails. If either 
driver lost concentration for even a moment, they would plunge with the car straight into the 
depths of the ravine. 

As though trying to distract our attention, a cell phone rang, but it wasn't my cell phone. Mori- 
san took out her cell phone and answered, 

"Understood. Everything will go according to plan," 

She gave a simple reply and then hung up, and then said to the front seat with an elegant and 
clear voice, 

"Arakawa, we're almost there," 

"No problem," 

Arakawa nodded and said with a very reliable voice, and switched to a low gear, disengaging the 
engine. Before I could even ask what he was doing, 



WHOA! 


The car came to a rocky unpainted round curve, just before the road turns into a corner. From 
that corner where we were headed, a police car rushed out, and did a beautiful drift before 
stopping horizontally across the road, blocking all access forward. 

Without anywhere to go, the minivan was forced to brake, creating a cloud of dust as it 
decelerated rapidly. When one of its wheels stuck over the cliff for a moment, my heart nearly 
stopped, but the kidnappers were just as skilled at driving. Forcibly shifting its position, as 
though performing a car stunt, the minivan spun for one and a half turns, creating an annoying 
screeching sound. It nearly bumped the side of the police car when it finally came to a halt in a 
parallel position. 

Arakawa-san also did the same and stopped the car in a parallel position, albeit slowly and 
safely. Surrounded from both sides, the only route the minivan could go was straight down the 
cliff. 

"Arakawa, stay here and standby," 

Upon saying that, Mori-san opened the door and stepped out of the road. I followed her and got 
out as well, as I was about to rush to the minivan, Mori-san grabbed me by the shoulder. 

Mori-san stopped me with a look in her eyes, then said to the kidnappers' car in a clear voice, 

"Please turn off your engine and step out of the car. There's still time for you to comply." 

She still said in a solemn tone, yet it sounded different from the one I heard in the lone island 
mansion or in Tsuruya-san's snow mountain mansion. 

A police officer stepped out of the police car, and I was stunned to see the person wearing that 
tidy police uniform. Under that police hat raising his thumb towards me was the face of Yutaka- 
san, the younger sibling of the Tamaru brothers. Sitting on the driver's seat was his older brother, 
Tamaru Keiichi-san, who gave me a polite salute with his friendly face. 

So were they the ones who Mori-san had spoken on the phone? 

"Release Asahina Mikuru-san at once. Your plan has failed. There is no need to make things any 
more complicated than they already are." 

Mori-san's authoritative voice had shifted my attention back to the minivan. As the windows 
were coated with a dark film, the interior could not be seen. Just as I was about to lose my 
temper and rush towards the minivan, even if it means giving it a kick, the engine had already 
gone silent and the slide door had also begun to move. Does this mean they no longer intend to 
resist? 



But, when I saw the kidnappers reveal themselves, my eyes were widened with astonishment. 

The kidnappers, who remained silent, were not some tough-faced macho-men, but a group of 
young men and women you'd find anywhere in the street. Even if I were to remember each of 
their faces, the biggest impression they made would be that they didn't look sinister at all. 

However, those doubts were soon cast off into the distance when I saw Asahina-san looking 
exhausted inside the car. Carried by the last woman to come off the car, Asahina-san seems to 
have lost consciousness as her eyes have closed, looking completely like a clay statue. 

Absolutely unforgivable! 

I was once again stopped by Mori-san for trying to rush over again. 

"I'm sure you all understand now, but allow me to repeat this again: If you even lay a finger on 
her " 

My legs softened at the sight of her sinister-looking smile. Who would have thought that such a 
beautiful lady would have such a terrifying smile? This makes the smiles Haruhi makes 
whenever she has something in mind pale in comparison. 

Perhaps sensing I was nearly petrified, Mori-san turned towards me with her maid-like smile 
once again, and then turned back to those bastard kidnappers, 

"Release her and I will let you go. It doesn't matter whether you return to your own organization 
or wherever. Otherwise " 

Mori-san's smile was now more terrifying than before, I think I'm about to faint. If I were one of 
those kidnappers, I'd probably shrink into a pea upon seeing such a smile. 

Yet those kidnappers weren't intimidated at all, but simply snorted and released Asahina-san. 

The Sleeping Beauty Asahina-san now leaned against the wheel and sat on the ground. These 
kidnappers merely saved their asses by treating her as though she were a fragile object. If they 
even dare try to toss such a beauty, I'm seriously gonna yell like mad and give those bastards a 
taste of my fury. 

"I will have the towing company return the car to you later. Please walk down the mountain from 
here." 

Mori-san pointed solemnly towards the cliff. Though she asked them to "walk down the 
mountain", but the problem was that they had no climbing equipment. She was basically giving 
them hell, but for some reason, I felt extremely satisfied. 

"Looks like we have no choice," 


One of the kidnappers said, as though oblivious to her current situation, 



We kind of expected it, but we still failed. I guess this was all pre-determined, 


Dressed in red and still sitting inside the car, the one that spoke was the woman who carried 
Asahina-san out of the car. No matter how I look at her, she is relatively young, about the same 
age as myself. 

As though trying to flirt with me, that lady gave a smile like a flower blossoming, 

"Nice to meet you. I never thought we would meet under such circumstances, despite this, I'm 
still deeply honored. I had originally planned to find a suitable occasion to pay you a visit." 

The lady made some gestures with her body language. Besides herself, the others had already 
stepped out of the car. The university- student like guy that came out last gave a stern face while 
shutting the door, and then headed for the nearly steep slope. After seeing one after another 
disappearing into the forest in the winter, it seems Mori-san and Tamaru Yutaka-san had no 
intention of bringing them to justice. 

I desperately wanted to run over to Asahina-san's side, but Mori-san's hand still remained on my 
shoulder. The kidnapper lady now giggled, 

"Don't you worry. Your precious time-traveler hasn't been harmed at all. We merely let her smell 
some anesthetics and put her to sleep. Who knows, she probably wouldn't remember what had 
happened. To be honest, we were quite surprised that she would fall asleep so quickly. Is she 
used to getting knocked out like that?" 

Despite the departure of her comrades, that lady - or I should say, young girl - still remained 
nonchalant. Mori-san, just how long do you intend to let her continue with her cockiness? She's a 
kidnapper, an unforgivable kidnapper! By the way, if you Tamaru brothers are going to be 
dressed like that, I'm sure your costumes come with handcuffs, right? 

As I was about to protest, one of the doors to the minivan that should have been empty had now 
opened. 

"This is no fun," 

The guy sticking his head out suddenly revealed a smile five times more evil than if Koizumi 
were to smile evilly, 

"I can't believe we got cornered so easily. If you want your Sleeping Beauty back, you can have 
her. We were supposed to last for a little longer, but now things have become worse for us." 

He remained seated casually on his seat. It was the bastard from yesterday, the second time 
traveler with his own agenda. The Sneering Bastard continued, 

"This is a pre-determined event, too. For us as well, that is. So you can't blame us." 



You must leave as well, please, 


Mori-san said like an elegant big sister, her lips revealing a smile as deadly as a poison ivy, 

"Or do you wish to remain here longer? We will gladly prepare a sleeping bag for you." 

"Don't even bother," 

The Sneering Bastard gazed at Asahina-san, snorted loudly, and then stared at me with an evil 
eye 

"Our mission this time did not end in failure. We merely allowed history to follow its course. 
Great job guys, whether it's you or Asahina Mikuru. Oh yeah, let me ask you, how does it feel to 
have your limbs manipulated like a puppet? I definitely won't be pleased, as I hate following 
arranged scripts, especially ones where you already know the ending!" 

"Well, I wouldn't mind if that were to happen to me," 

The kidnapper girl said. 

"You tell me, how many futures have been decided? It requires a bit of skill to follow through to 
the correct outcome without deviating from the intended path, you know. While anyone can 
dance easily, it's very difficult having to dance correctly as instructed." 

"Hmph! You can dance all you like! I never expected anything from you people," 

"Oh really?" 

The kidnapper girl said amusingly, 

"I personally wouldn't mind at all. Since our objectives are the same, let's continue to work 
together!" 

His handsome face distorted by hatred, the Sneering Bastard began staring at me once again. Let 
me put this straight, as a regular receiver of Haruhi's intense glare, your staring is nothing 
compared to hers. If you want to play a staring game with me, you're all the more welcome to do 
so. 


Perhaps sensing my hostile aura, the bastard muttered, 

"Fools! Every one of you! I just can't understand. You're all so tragically ignorant!" 
The bastard held the handle to the car door and threw this parting shot to me, 

"I'll be back. We'll run into each other many times, you fool! But that's my job." 



It seems like that's all he wanted to say, as he slammed the door shut after saying that. 


No one present made any movement. Mori-san maintained her terrifying smile, and just stared at 
the kidnapper girl. While I couldn't move thanks to Mori-san holding me back. The nameless 
kidnapper girl remained standing with a smile, then as though thinking of something, she 
approached the car and opened the door. 

Even if she didn't do that, I already knew the car was now empty. There was no one inside, and 
the bastard who basically had a sign saying "I hate you" on his face had vanished without a trace. 
I couldn't care less whether he traveled through time or space, to see such an eyesore of a freak 
disappear in front of my eyes was a thing worth celebrating. 

"I should take my leave as well," 

Clapping her hands as though accomplishing her mission, the kidnapper girl looked at the 
mountainous path below her, 

"I guess I'll walk back. Oh, you can do whatever you want with that car. You can keep it, it's 
yours," 

"Thanks," 

After replying, Mori-san finally let go of my hand. Like a mother bird worried about its offspring 
left in their nest, I hurried towards Asahina-san, 

"Asahina-san!" 

I carried her by her shoulder, her faint breathing and slight chest movements was proof that she 
was still alive. I was about to turn around to swear indignantly at that kidnapper girl, but she had 
already climbed down the cliff. 

Mori-san came to my side and approached Asahina-san's sleeping face. She placed her fingers 
onto Asahina-san's neck and smelled the side of her lips, 

"She's fine. She should be awake in another two hours. Please carry her to the car," 

I was of course in charge of the carrying work. I was already used to carrying Asahina-san. This 
was also one of my jobs for which I do not wish to be replaced. 

Once we got back to the black taxi, Arakawa-san looked gently at Asahina-san like a grandfather 
would look at his granddaughter, and then he looked with concern at me as well. I allowed the 
exhausted Asahina-san to sit in the back seat, and I naturally sat beside her. Though I panicked at 
first, all I want to do was yell "Banzai" now that I've saved Asahina-san. If those guys had 
succeeded no, there's no need to think about that anymore, that was now impossible. 



Can I believe in pre-determined events, Asahina-san (big)? For you to go to such lengths, it 
means this event is absolutely necessary for this Asahina-san to go through in order to become 
you when she grows up, right? 

As my attention was now focused on the sleeping face of Asahina-san, who seemed younger than 
me, I didn't notice Mori-san had also climbed onto the car, and had completely forgotten to say 
hi to the Tamaru brothers as the car drove off. It was only after a while that I came to my senses. 

"Where do you wish to go from here?" 

Mori-san asked. I now realized the taxi was heading back the original route along the highway. 

" Please take me to the library," 

I wanted to see Nagato as soon as possible before I could relax. After giving my destination, I 
slumped onto my seat. My exhaustion level was comparable to that of Asahina-san's. 

I had thought that my work was over after releasing the turtle and picking it back up, I never 
expected to go through seeing Asahina-san getting kidnapped. Though I was mentally exhausted, 
I still managed to slowly move my lips, 

"Mori-san has Asahina-san been attacked by those people before? Have they nearly 

kidnapped her before without me knowing? And would they ever " 

"She has not been kidnapped in this time period." 

Huh? Then what just 

"This shows that my deduction was correct. She is indeed unharmed in this time period. This is 
because her future self has acted as her decoy." 

Mori-san's face was now full of compassion, 

"Asahina-san is being watched over by many people. By you, by Nagato Yuki-san, and by 
us like you, we do not wish to hand her over to anyone." 

Just like how I trusted Koizumi, I guess she was also someone I could trust. 

"As for other details, you can ask your gorgeous maid. I mean the one from the even further 
future, the beautiful and mature big sister, that is." 

That was the most objective suggestion I've heard so far. I was about to see her even if you didn't 
tell me to. I sighed and asked something I suddenly thought of, 

"Mori-san, are you one of Koizumi's superiors? You don't seem to refer to him in a deferential 
way." 



Mori-san chortled and gave a smile which didn't reveal her age, 


"That doesn't mean anything. It is usual for colleagues from the same company to address each 
other on friendly terms outside. It's the same for us." 

It's pretty obvious she was dodging the question, but I was hardly interested in the rank and 
hierarchy of the "Organization". If I really want to know, I'd just interrogate Koizumi. Though 
like Mori-san, it's likely he won't reveal anything. According to Koizumi's style, if he really 
wants to tell me, he'll do so even with no one prompting him. This may be the 'Organization's' 
way of revealing information. Sooner or later, even if I didn't ask, Koizumi would eventually 
explain everything to me and chatter away. 

Until then, I'll just quietly wait for that moment to come. 


I got out of the taxi outside the library, and with help from Mori-san I once again carried the 
Sleeping Beauty that is Asahina-san. 

"Please take care. I hope we meet again someday," 

Mori-san said once again with her gentle and friendly maid-like smile. Arakawa-san also gave 
his silent butler salute. They then headed north along the highway in their taxi. Who knows, 
when Koizumi brought me to visit those 'Avatars', it could have been Arakawa that was in the 
driver's seat. I guess I'll ask him next time. Even if it wasn't, I'll still have to thank him 
nonetheless, and the Tamaru brothers as well, for that matter. 

As I carried Asahina-san to the entrance of the library, I noticed Nagato was there waiting for 
me. Nagato stood quite straight, as though she didn't feel cold at all. Before I could speak 

"It is good that she is fine." 

Her eyes turned towards the sleeping face of Asahina-san lying on my shoulder, 

"I have heard about what happened." 

From whom? Koizumi? 

Nagato slowly shook her head, and stretched out one of her hands at an even slower speed. 

In Nagato's hand was a letter. Next to the illustration was printed a number: 


# 5 . 



Turns out the missing letter from the future was sent to Nagato instead. I didn't even need to ask 
who the sender was. Still, Nagato told me anyway, 

"It was from Asahina Mikuru's differential temporal clone. We met about an hour ago." 

So you were here, Asahina-san (big). Only you went to see Nagato instead. 

"Did she say anything?" 

"She asked me to do her a favor." 

Nagato said calmly and stretched out her finger, placing it on Asahina-san's smooth forehead. 

" Umm huh Wah!?" 

It was a magical finger, as Asahina-san had opened her eyes just by the touch of it, 

"Wah! Kyon-kun Huh? Why am I being carried by you? And, N, Nagato-san " 

I guess Shamisen would feel just as uncomfortable as Asahina-san right now whenever he's 
being picked up against his own will. While she had been struggling since the moment she woke 
up, I had actually wanted to carry her a little longer, but since Nagato's watching, I'll just have to 
put her down. The anesthetic that Mori-san said would take two hours to wear off has seemingly 
been dispelled by a single touch from Nagato, as Asahina-san didn't seem to wobble as her feet 
touched the ground once again. 

Her eyes looking a bit red, Asahina-san looked teary-eyed at me, 

"Um has something happened to me? After giving that little turtle to that boy Ah, that's it, 

a car suddenly stopped in front " 

And after that, you were knocked unconscious. I told everything to Asahina-san, who doesn't 
remember anything, as it had happened. Upon hearing me describe the details, Asahina-san's face 
went from pale to red to pale again. It was only when I concluded with the end of the condensed 
version of the car pursuit, that she surprisingly revealed a smile, 

"So that's how it is. Turns out I'm useful after all, I protected my past self in this time period. 
Thank goodness," 

Asahina-san's optimistic smile had blown away all the fatigue within me. She was right, if it 
wasn't for this Asahina (Michiru)-san, the kidnappers may have resorted to extreme means to 
kidnap Asahina-san (small). And they would have done it right in front of Haruhi. Even if 



Koizumi had wanted to stop them, there's nothing much he could do if he were to keep his cover 
intact. Things would become serious indeed if that were to happen. Haruhi would be royally 
pissed and Koizumi's faction would certainly not sit by and do nothing. Yet, those kidnappers 
should have realized by now, even kidnapping the harmless Asahina (Michiru)-san didn't go as 
well as they might have expected 

This time, I didn't rely on Nagato's powers to rescue Asahina-san. If Nagato had been involved 
this time, I wonder what might have happened? Those people should know the consequences 
very well if that happens. There's no way four mere kidnappers could beat the formidable 
Nagato, but I'd certainly look forward to such a scene. 

"Oh, that letter " 

Asahina-san's eyes were now fixed on Letter #5. 

"When was it sent over here?" 

Just a while ago, but it was sent to Nagato. 

"Sent to Nagato-san " 

Raising her eyebrows, Asahina-san said softly to her fellow brigade member's slim figure, 

"N, Nagato-san. Could the one who sent you that letter be Ah?" 

"I can't tell you." 

Nagato flatly turned down her question. The poker-faced alien said in a tone like a teacher 
teaching her students, 

"Sooner or later you will understand." 

She then said to Asahina-san, whose cherry-like lips were opened as she stood stiffly there, 

"As you of all people should know best." 

Like a snowman that had just spoken, Nagato turned around and put on her hood once she 
finished. 

From her eyes, I knew that she did not mean "I don't want to tell you". Turns out I wasn't the 
only one who feels that "You'll understand even if I didn't". 

Sandwiched between two silent female brigade members, I suddenly felt extremely 
uncomfortable, so I decided to open that letter. 


The contents of Letter #5 were as below: 



"Everything is now over. Please tell the Asahina Mikuru there to return to her original garrisoned 
time period. You're free to decide what the destination time and location would be." 

Free to decide huh? How I hoped this line could be interpreted differently under different 

circumstances, just once would do. Of course it would be better if Asahina-san were to say this 
directly to me. 

Forget it, I can think all I want, it just couldn't be possible. Even if that wish were granted, I 
probably wouldn't dare do anything, and would be so overwhelmed that I'd simply faint. By the 
time I'd come to my senses I would have realized Haruhi had awoken me by knocking on my 
head, damn it! That is why I never allow myself to have wishes that are too ridiculous, especially 
not like Haruhi who would wish for the rotation of the Earth to go backwards. Wishes that you 
don't want to become true are better off staying ungranted, and the world should stay as it is. 

And so, my priority was now to send Asahina-san to her original time period. I placed my hand 
on the shoulder of Asahina-san, who seemed to be lost in thought, and showed her the details of 
Letter #5. Though she was more concerned about who the sender was, she still went and read the 
letter from beginning to end. She gave an expression of understanding something and said, 

"Understood. My mission has now ended." 

She then said with a lonely expression, 

"But now it would become an indirect order. Without your instruction, I can't return to my 
original time period," 

Yet Asahina-san quickly dispelled that thought and was smiling at me once again, 

"I will show you one day that I can accomplish something all on my own as well. By then I will 
be the one saving Kyon-kun. Though I don't know when that'll be, it'll definitely come " 

Your wish will come true. As long as you don't forget the meaning to achieving that goal, and 
never lose your determination towards achieving that goal. 

I looked at my watch, but I didn't feel like watching the time, 

"Let's see, what's the destination time " 

This Asahina-san appeared in the broom locker at 3:45PM six days before today. She said she 
arrived at "4:15PM, eight days from now", so her destination ought to take place after 4:15PM 
that day. If it were set before that time, then it'll create lots of confusion. As far as I avoid having 
two Asahina-sans appearing at the same time, I guess it'll be OK to set the time difference 
between departure and arrival by 62 seconds. 



"It'll be Tuesday two days from now, right? How about 4:16PM at that day? In that way, you 
would only be absent from that time period for about a minute or so. Let's pick the same location 
as well, inside the broom locker in the club room," 

"You're right if it's that time, only Kyon-kun would be there," 

"Uniform and indoor shoes." 

Thanks to Nagato reminding us, I remembered that the clothes this Asahina-san was wearing 
were all borrowed from Tsuruya-san. Her sailor uniform had been left at Tsuruya-san's place. I 
also realized that if I escorted Asahina-san back to Tsuruya-san's place, I would miss the 
scheduled meeting time. Yet I barely managed to rescue Asahina-san, I really didn't want to 
leave her all alone again. 

"In that case, Asahina-san, you should just go straight to two days later like that. I'll try to find a 
way to get your uniform and indoor shoes back from Tsuruya-san today." 

"Then I leave it all to you. Oh, and " 

After bowing deeply, Asahina-san looked straight at me, as though forgetting what to say, she 
opened her little mouth then shut it again. Was it because Nagato was around that she didn't dare 
speak? 

"It's nothing Um, I think I'll tell you when I get back," 

Though I was concerned, it didn't seem like anything important. If I'll know about it the day after 
tomorrow, then I didn't mind not knowing about it now. 

How I wished the time traveling device would be activated now, but Asahina-san probably 
wouldn't let me have a glimpse of that. Seems like she would need to be alone in order for her to 
travel, so we entered the library and escorted Asahina-san to the ladies' bathroom. 

"Kyon-kun, I'm really thankful for your help these last few days. That includes Koizumi-kun and 
Tsuruya-san as well." 

You can thank Koizumi anytime, for Mori-san you can do so when you see her next time. As for 
Tsuruya-san, I'm sure she'll understand even if you didn't say anything. Of course, I'll relay it to 
Tsuruya-san as well anyway. 

"Well then Kyon-kun, Nagato-san, see you later," 

Asahina-san still looked hesitant to enter the bathroom when she went in. Once the bathroom 
door had closed, no more sound could be heard from inside. Nagato then lifted her head and 
quietly said to me, 


She has disappeared from this time period. 



It's over, is it? The rest will have to wait till two days later. I accompanied Nagato out of the 
library and breathed a huge sigh of relief. 

"Nagato, for the past two days, I've come across time-travelers that're different from Asahina-san 
and people that oppose Koizumi's organization." 

"Is that so?" 

"Yeah. So I was thinking, those aliens that you've mentioned may also have appeared somewhere 
out there," 

"Are you afraid?" 

Nagato asked me without moving her head, she then gave me her own answer, 

"I'm not afraid." 

You're right, Nagato. I think the same as you do. I'm sure Asahina-san and Koizumi would agree 
as well. Since we all agree on the important things, let's continue to be friends. 

Nagato continued walking forward without saying a word, and I followed silently as well. 

There is no need to say things that are plainly obvious, on this I'm pretty clear. The SOS Brigade 
is not an organization with five individuals, but a single entity whose name is called "the SOS 
Brigade". I know very well about this, and so there is no need to talk about it with someone who 
knows it even better than I do. 


( Chapter Six End) 


Chapter 7 

Chapter Seven 


Waiting in front of the station, Haruhi waved her hand madly like a cheerleader waving her flag 
the moment she saw me and Nagato arriving. Asahina-san stood just next to her, and a few steps 
away was Koizumi. Haruhi seems to be giddy to the point of being hysterical, while Asahina-san 


revealed a smile more cheerful than usual. Koizumi gave me a meaningful glance while flicking 
his bangs. 

"Kyon, Yuki, you two sure are enjoying yourselves. Just where have you been?" 

Haruhi said mischievously as she grabbed Nagato's little hands, 

"I bet you two were probably having a date in the library. It'll be better if you actually find some 
mysterious stuff in there, so did you?" 

"Of course we didn't." 

There weren't books which would suck the reader into another world, or books that people would 
emerge out of. Maybe you'll have better luck finding one or two of these books in those large and 
antique libraries. 

"I see, then we'll try looking for them in those old bookstores next time. I had wanted to 
rummage through Tsuruya-san's ancestral store room, but that's off limits for outsiders." 

Haruhi began walking at her own pace without declaring where we're going, and as though 
reading her mind, Asahina-san and Koizumi smiled nonchalantly and followed her. Nagato and I 
have no choice but to follow as well. 

I know very well that asking Haruhi "Where're you going?" was plain useless. Even if the 
destination was uncertain, she would still stride forward, then brake suddenly, point to where 
she's standing and declare proudly, "This is our destination!" If the SOS Brigade were to sail the 
uncharted seas under the guidance of Captain Haruhi, we might end up in Bermuda. Yet this time 
Haruhi simply led us to the Italian restaurant we'd been to yesterday. 

During lunch I glanced thoughtfully at Asahina-san many times. While I was relieved to see her 
enjoy herself as she ate her seafood spaghetti with her knife and fork, when I realized that very 
soon she would be busy spending time with my past self, I felt like telling her everything, at least 
I should tell her about her getting kidnapped 

While my mind was debating intensely, Haruhi suddenly roughly tapped the side of my plate 
with her fork and said, 

"Kyon, what are you daydreaming for? If you have any problems, you can always tell the 
Commander." 

Her glittering eyes were proof of her enthusiasm. Haruhi then spoke with the look of someone 
who was far from amused by an unfunny April Fool's joke, 


"Oh yeah, you still remember that phone call you gave me? The prank call, that is, just what 
were you thinking?" 



Oh, that. 


I gulped for a while and said, 

"It was a stupid joke. I wasn't thinking properly then, if I had known the prank wouldn't work I 
wouldn't have called. Sorry about that." 

I took a glance at Asahina-san, Haruhi did the same as well. Asahina-san replied with an "Eh?" 
and stopped sipping her spaghetti. We then turned to face each other again. "Not that it matters," 
Haruhi said generously, "Next time be more creative with your prank calls, I'll give you bonus 
points if the joke's funny. Once you collect enough points you get to redeem them for a little 
prize. But be prepared to get a massive points deduction if the joke's not funny at all! Remember 
that!" 

Feels as though she's asking me to give her a prank call. Does this mean I have to think up of a 
joke every time I call her? Seeing me looking troubled, Haruhi and Asahina-san began to giggle 
quietly. 


After lunch, Haruhi happily called it a day. I'd already heard from Asahina (Michiru)-san, but to 
dismiss the band after just a few hours in the morning... I guess having activities for two 
consecutive days was finally taking its toll on Haruhi as well, although she still remained as 
energetic as ever. 

As we parted ways, Asahina-san smiled gently at me; Nagato remained expressionless; while 
Koizumi looked relaxed as though he'd seen it all. 

I walked for a while before turning and calling out to Koizumi, 

"I guess I owe you one." 

"Oh don't mention it. I was merely taking precautionary measures, and I'm not confident that 
they're adequate. I was pretty much redundant during the car pursuit." 

Were those cops in the police car really the Tamaru brothers? I somehow doubt that they're even 
brothers. 

"Well you could say they're my colleagues that sometimes pretend to be brothers who own a lone 
island mansion and run an investment enterprise, and sometimes pretend to be a pair of 
cops would that do?" 

What about Mori-san and Arakawa-san ? Especially Mori-san, I'm beginning to suspect what 

her true identity is. 



Is your organization working together with Asahina-san's and Nagato's bosses? 


"We aren't directly working together, yet for some time we seem to have created an 
understanding with each other, and have even joined forces unknowingly. The world is now 
headed in a direction which I'm no longer familiar with, and it may be some time before 
everyone within the 'Organization' can be united in understanding and intent." 

As we continued to walk along the path, Koizumi shrugged his shoulders and said, 

"There are some among us who actually hold the extremist view that Nagato-san and Asahina- 
san are just pitiful delusional girls who think they're an alien or a time-traveler, and that there are 
no such things as aliens or time -travelers," 

Boy, they sure are stubborn even at this stage. These guys should come attached with a warranty 
for stubbornness. 

"Well, they could argue that Nagato-san's magical-like abilities and Asahina-san's ability to 
travel through time are all triggered by Suzumiya-san, causing them to believe they're an alien or 
a time-traveler what do you think about that?" 

If they can say even that, then what couldn't they deny? 

"Maybe the one with omnipotent powers isn't Suzumiya-san after all, but rather someone else?" 

Koizumi's probably trying to add some sarcasm to his smile, yet all I saw was his usual grin. 

"The eye of the storm is very calm, yet it is surrounded by calamity. Maybe there are some that 
decide to watch from the sidelines and see how all this unfolds. You sure have been kept busy as 
well, would a scriptwriter play such a tiring character himself?" 

There he goes with his ambiguous statements again, but since I owe him one, I might as well 
listen. Though I can't guarantee that I can remember everything, because if I could my grades 
would've improved by now. 

"To be honest, I'm beginning to be marginalized. If you ask me where I belong, then I would 
have to say it's with the SOS Brigade. My feelings tell me that rather than the 'Organization', the 
SOS Brigade is where I truly belong. I've thought about it before, should the 'Organization' come 
into conflict with the SOS Brigade, would I be stuck in a dilemma? You know what I mean?" 

Just when I was preparing for one of Koizumi's long-winded speeches, this time he chose to 
finish it with his question and part company with me. 



After I got home, I sat on the floor of my room, now completely covered with Shamisen's fur. 
The project with Asahina (Michiru)-san was over, but the project with Asahina-san (small) has 
only just begun. In other words, I still got work to do! 

I also still had Letter #6 from the future: 

"When everything is all over, please come to the park " 

I've already followed Letter #5's instruction and sent Asahina (Michiru)-san back to her time 
period where she came from, that just leaves Letter #6. But then what 

Was it really all over? I felt like something's stuck in my mind, but I couldn't think what it was, 
just like getting choked by a fish bone and not being able to spit it out. 

It was pointless trying to squeeze dry a brain that's already empty, so I went back and read all of 
Asahina-san's (big) letters. The problem was that they were all so cryptic, I just couldn't guess 
what good following the instructions would bring, yet 

"Except this one," 

"Please head to the mountain. There lies a rock that stands out from the rest. Please move it three 
meters west of its original position. As for the exact location, Asahina Mikuru will know " 

Only this was linked with Haruhi, and this was the only place where everyone in the SOS 
Brigade had gathered. A fruitless treasure hunt, though I already knew the outcome 
beforehand 

As I was about to link all the missing pieces together, my sister charged in saying it was time for 
dinner. Reluctantly, I left my room. I decided to forget everything as I washed my hair in the 
shower. By the time I dip my chin into the bath water, my mind will only be thinking of quickly 
getting some sleep. 

As if right on cue, today's instruction finally arrived, save that it's from Haruhi instead of some 
time traveler, and instead of a letter in a shoe locker, the instruction came via the phone in my 
sister's hand. 

"Kyon-kun, your phone. It's from Haru-nyan," 

My sister barged into the bathroom holding the cordless receiver, I quickly waved my hand and 
drove her out while placing the phone by my ear, 

"Hello?" 


Oh, you're taking a bath? 



Haruhi's voice echoed through the bathroom walls. Yeah, I'm taking a bath, so don't go around 
getting any funny ideas now. 


"Of course I wouldn't, you idiot. Anyway, as usual, we'll meet tomorrow in front of the station, 
got it?" 

Now you tell me, why couldn't you say that when you dismissed the team earlier today? 

"Well, I was sort of busy myself as well." 

I don't remember you being considerate about other people's free time. 

"Shut up! Let's meet in the afternoon, um two o'clock would do. You can come empty 

handed," 

What about you? 

"That's none of your business. Remember, two o'clock tomorrow, if you dare stay away I'll make 
you regret it for the rest of your life. Be punctual! See ya." 

Haruhi has always been swiftly straightforward when talking on the phone. I stepped out of the 
bathtub with the phone in my hand and thought as I dried myself with the towel. 

"Here we go again, what is she up to this time?" Ever since entering into sulking mode in the 
beginning of February, Haruhi had gone through throwing soy beans in Setsubun, treasure 
hunting, and two consecutive days of mystery searching. Does she intend to end this all with a 
bang? 

Hang on, how come I never heard any of this from Asahina (Michiru)-san? Meeting in front of 
the station tomorrow wasn't included in her itinerary. Did she have anything to do with it, or did 
she know nothing about it, or maybe she was deliberately hiding this from me? 

Please don't tell me that this part of history never existed 


Yet arriving at the specified location at the specified time was becoming a habit for me. There 
were still five minutes remaining when I arrived in front of the station that afternoon, but the 
scene of seeing everybody already there waiting was more reliable than seeing the seasons 
changing from winter to spring. 

The sun must be rising in the west! Not only did Haruhi not blame me for my late arrival, she 
didn't lead us into the coffee shop either. We walked together to the bus depot, there Haruhi 
shoved me onto the bus as though escorting a prisoner. 



I was becoming aware to Asahina-san's constant yawns and attempts to cover her mouth quickly 
afterwards. I then noticed Haruhi also seemed to be lacking sleep as she kept rubbing her eyes. 
When she realized I was watching her, she quickly glared menacingly at me and turned her face 
away with a scowl to look at the scenery outside, which was becoming greener as the bus went 
along. 

The bus drove towards the mountain, it was the same road we took when we went treasure 
hunting on Tsuruya-san's private hill. 

We even got off the same bus stop. Don't tell me we're climbing Tsuruya Hill using the same 
route we took last time? 

"That is actually the longer and less direct path. This time we're going to climb from the south 
side on the other side of the hill. " 

Haruhi walked with steady footsteps, followed by Asahina-san and Nagato as they climbed the 
hill for the second time without hesitation. Koizumi rubbed his chin and said, 

"Let's go. We're here already, so there's no point in retreating anyway," 

While chortling like a pigeon. 

Haruhi walked around the outer range of the hill and began climbing from the south side. I was 
now aware where we were headed, as I had been there for two consecutive days not long ago. 

Besides the mountain forest, a dried grassy field appeared before our eyes. The first time I 
climbed this way was with Asahina (Michiru)-san, the second time I came down the hill this way 
with the SOS Brigade. 

Haruhi led the way, picking the shortest route as she led her brigade to the gourd-shaped rock. 
"So that's why " 

On the day when I moved the rock, the reason Asahina-san was able to guide me directly to the 
destination was because she had already climbed this hill many times. 

And right now this Asahina-san was walking haphazardly while being dragged by Haruhi, 

Nagato acting as her guardian and preventing her from falling. 

Very soon we arrived at our destination. Haruhi quickly rushed onto the plateau, and as though 
finding a seat, sat right on top of the gourd-shaped rock, 


"Kyon, Koizumi-kun, we now begin the second phase of the treasure hunt! Think carefully, we 
were too impatient to give up after digging for only one day, we can't just leave empty handed!' 



Haruhi revealed a bright sunshine smile as she took out two small shovels normally used for 
gardening from her coat pocket and threw them towards me and Koizumi. 

"I had wanted you to dig using those large shovels like last time, so I'm letting you off the hook 
this time! There's only one place we need to dig this time, and it's right here!" 

Haruhi pointed right in front of where she was sitting, at the side of the gourd-shaped rock. That 
was exactly where Koizumi and I had spent our life force digging as much as to two meters deep. 
Before I could say "We've already dug there before", Haruhi spoke again, 

"Isn't it common that the things that people desperately want to find are actually lying in places 
which they've already gone through? The same goes for treasures, if you want to find them, 
you'll have to go through the same spot carefully. When I say there's treasure, then there has to 
be." 

Haruhi's confidence is greater than the loyal dog of the Old Man who Made the Trees Blossom. 
Asahina-san nods her head and smiles in agreement, while Nagato doesn't even move an 
eyebrow. In that case, I decide not to daydream while holding the shovel in my hand, and I began 
to understand why Koizumi was grinning. 

I didn't spend a lot of time or energy while digging, as the dirt that we piled back in was already 
quite soft, so even digging with a small shovel was easy. Not to mention as I just stuck the 
shovel in the dirt, it immediately hit something hard. 

Basking under the evil smile of Haruhi, I wiped the dirt away with my hands and picked up the 
object which the shovel had hit. The box I held didn't seem to be from the Genroku period, it was 
more like a senbei or cookie container. As I didn't remember seeing this when digging with 
Koizumi three days ago, someone must have placed it in here during that time, but I didn't have 
time to think of who it was that put it in. 

"Well, open it," 

Haruhi's expression is like that of the Tongue-Cut Sparrow when the kind old man who came to 
visit him chose his smaller present. 

I held tight to the box and pulled the lid open with a "clang" sound, 


There was no gold, not even a Koban coin. But I don't think anyone would complain if I said 
there was indeed treasure inside. 

There were six little boxes wrapped delicately with shiny wrappings, with a ribbon on top on 
each of them to boot. 


Finally, as now was the most appropriate time to use the word "finally", 



I suddenly remembered what day it was today. Instead of remembering, it was more like 
noticing. For some guys, this day was far more meaningful than July 7th. 

Today was February 14th. 

Valentine's Day. 


"I made them myself," 

Haruhi leaned forward and explained, 

"Last night, I've been working all night with Mikuru-chan and Yuki and even had to spend the 
night at Yuki's place. We had originally wanted to use just cocoa powder to make chocolates, but 
we thought that was too grandiose. So in the end we decided to make chocolate cakes instead!" 

On each box wrapping there was a sticker with the name of myself or Koizumi handwritten by 
the girls; we both got three of these each. 

Koizumi put down his shovel and picked up one of the boxes after elegantly wiping his hands 
free of dust. On top it was labeled "For Koizumi-kun - From Mikuru-chan" Now that's a treasure, 
made by the very hands of Asahina-san! 

Like a machine gun, Haruhi began to fire away, 

"Of course it is! We made it specifically for you guys, it felt fun and exhausting when we made 
it, but we're fine. I had been feeling uneasy about this secret plan, as I had wanted to laugh at you 
guys for falling for it, but what's the point? In the end, this has become a well-accepted tradition 
after all. Though there're still some that insist that this is all some conspiracy conjured up by the 
confectionery industry, seriously are they nuts? Anyway, I had fun making these with Yuki and 
Mikuru-chan, we even thought of adding pepper inside at first. Well, what's with that face of 
yours?" 

"Oh it's nothing, I'm actually so grateful I could weep." That's what I truly thought, since I had 
completely forgotten about the very day that all the men in the country had been so looking 
forward to. If I had known then I would have prepared some charming words, but this had come 
all so suddenly that I was at a loss on what to say to the three female brigade members. I was 
neither good enough to make an elegant response, nor was I prepared to act embarrassed. 

Perhaps that means I've still got lots to learn in life. 

My whole body relaxed, now everything makes sense. Haruhi's irregular behavior at the 
beginning of February, the Asahina-san that traveled from the future not revealing any further 
details concerning the true nature of the treasure hunt, and Taniguchi's sudden dumping by his 
girlfriend 



Haruhi sure is something, so she was bothered by how she could give chocolates to me all this 
time, but she just wouldn't admit it. She could've just gave them to me in the classroom, but 
instead she had to come up with treasure hunting as an excuse, just so we could dig a hole for her 
to bury the chocolates inside, that's how indirect she is. Does that mean Tsuruya-san was an 
accomplice to this as well? The treasure map was probably fake as well, the fact that Haruhi gave 
up the hunt so easily meant she knew there was no treasure all along. That was because the 
treasure she mentioned had not yet been buried until the suitable time. So it was this treasure - 
the three pieces of chocolate cake Koizumi and I each received - that made Haruhi so uneasy, she 
even dragged Asahina-san and Nagato into it as well. 

Now how should I say this 

"You stupid idiot!" That was for both Haruhi, who had planned this, and for myself, who had not 
figured this out earlier. 

"They're just obligation chocolates! They should be obligation chocolates, sort of! Actually I 
don't know why they have to call it obligation chocolates. Chocolates and chocolate cakes are 
both made of cocoa anyway," 

Haruhi sounded like one of those strange insects chirping in the autumn grass fields. I slowly 
made an effort to lift my head up. 

What I saw was Haruhi's eyes looking glaringly at me, Asahina-san smiling gracefully like an 
adorable girl who just did some mischief, and Nagato looking blankly at my hands. 



& 

What I saw was Haruhi's eyes looking glaringly at me, Asahina-san smiling gracefully like an adorable girl 
who just did some mischief, and Nagato looking blankly at my hands. 

"I'm extremely grateful for this gift. I'll definitely enjoy it," 



Koizumi spoke before I could Haruhi twitched her lips and said, 


"I hope you quickly finish them all when you get home, even better if you do it before dinner! 
Don't take them as offerings to some shrine ! " 

Haruhi hurriedly turned her head away, and then quickly stood up, 

"Let's go home. If we don't leave after the activity ends, we'll get stuck in a traffic jam on the 
way back. Boy, I feel sleepy, we worked all the way till sunrise, you know? And we had to come 
and bury them here afterwards, so by the time I got back to Yuki's place I only slept for two 
hours. Mikuru-chan and Yuki as well!" 


On the return trip, when we were waiting for the bus at the bus stop, Haruhi stood furthest away 
from me and stared at the skies, totally avoiding eye contact with me. Oh boy. 

I whispered to Asahina-san who was standing besides me, 

"Do you have anyone that you like?" 

"Um," 

Asahina-san said looking despondent, 

"Even if I did fall for someone here, we would have to part when it's time for me to go back to 
the future. That would be too painful for me " 

Such an impeccable way of thinking, there was no way I could argue against that. Yet even when 
faced with such a perfect argument, I was still hesitant on whether to accept this fate. 

"Then don't go back," I said, "This time period isn't that bad, is it? You can always go back to the 
future anytime, only you will have made your new home here. " 

"Hee hee, thanks," 

Asahina-san smiled gently, I was really tempted to kiss those pink lips of hers, which were like a 
flower that had just blossomed. 

"It's just that this period isn't the period where I was born, my home is in the future. I mean, as 
this is technically my past, I'm simply a visitor here. The future is where my present and where 
my home belongs. Someday I would have to go back." 

She is like the Kaguya-Hime, nothing can be done to stop her from leaving the mortal world 
when the fated time arrives, since she doesn't belong here after all, or at least that's what I truly 
think. If I were to go back a few hundred years into the past, at first I would be feeling curious 
about the new environment I was in, but after a while, I would begin to miss the advanced tools 



and machines, the crisp display of a video game, the microwaved boxed lunch from the local 
convenience store, and trying to write a meaningless text message or make a phone call that 
transcends time with my cell phone. In any case, nothing beats being able to sleep in a nice warm 
bed in your own room. 

Even if she could do all the same stuff in this time period, Asahina-san would probably still feel 
out of place here. She is, after all, just a visitor, and I guess if a person is in a place that doesn't 
feel like home, she would probably feel unsettled as well. 

"Oh, b... but " 

Asahina-san frantically waved her hands and explained, 

"This doesn't mean I'm unhappy here. I've found staying here to be quite meaningful, allowing 
me to work hard to become even better. Actually I'm grateful that you have always been by my 
side, Kyon-kun." 

I was very delighted to hear her say that, so I decided to try something to see how she really 
feels, 

"Alright then, when the time comes for you to return to the future why don't you take me 

along?" 

Though Haruhi's not going to keep quiet about it if that were to happen. 

"Then we could have an SOS Brigade tour of the future. We'll bring Haruhi, Nagato, and 
Koizumi as well, I can guarantee there'll be no complaints from them. Hmm, now that I think 
about it, it wouldn't be too bad moving to the future either." 

"Eh!?" 

The fairy-like round eyes now widened in astonishment, 

"N-no, you mustn't! That sort of action is absolutely forbidden " 

The fear in Asahina-san's face stayed for a while, but then she noticed my expression. She 
quickly shut her mouth and her shoulders began to move gently, 

"Hee hee, really, stop making such serious jokes. You gave me a scare." 

"Sorry." 

Yup, it was obviously a joke. The time period where I must exist is here in the present, though I 
have gone through lots of hardship, including having to travel to and from three to four years in 
the past; yet right now, the SOS Brigade club room is still the place where I would go. It's still 
less than a year in high school, Haruhi still has plenty of peculiar ideas waiting to be explored, 



and it's likely she won't give up so easily. So it's still a bit early to think about leaving everything 
behind and escaping to the future. 


There will come a day when Asahina-san would return to the future, but at least for now she is 
still with us, and that is enough. If all the happy moments were to be joined up together like 
beads in a necklace, the future would probably become interesting as well. Asahina-san once 
described the various time planes as a series of still images in a cartoon. In that case, if every 
page consists of comedy, then it's simply impossible for the last page to contain any horror 
elements. I'll never allow that to happen, I mean, who would? 

I once lost Haruhi and my friends from the SOS Brigade for a brief while, but now they're back 
within my embrace. I'll never forget that determination I had then. No matter what difficulties I'll 
face, how many times I fall, I'll never stop going forward. I'm not the sort of bridge-burning 
expert that would so easily abandon a decision I made just two months ago. I only ask that the 
exclamation "yare yare" be reserved exclusively for me. 

In other words, no matter how cheap one's self esteem is, the price would still be too high to be 
able to sell it in a flea market auction. Even if one were to sigh "yare yare", it'll be fine as long as 
he's willing to give it his best. Nobody cares about the dialog anyway, whether it's "Haruhi, you 
idiot" or "take me with you", it's fine if you keep as quiet as Nagato as well. In a three-legged 
race, everyone's foot is strapped with their companion, as it's impossible to run a three-legged 
race by tying one's own legs together, and it's even more fun running with five people in a six- 
legged race. 

After the events of the past week, I came up with the above realizations. 


It's been quite some time, starting with the ritual of meeting in front of the station to coming back 
to call it a day here. All this time today Haruhi has turned her face away, she didn't even bother 
talking with her back turned to me. As Our Excellency the Commander then walks away in great 
strides, I wonder just what sort of expression she would appear with in the classroom tomorrow? 

I made sure the boxes were still in my pocket as I thanked both Asahina-san and Nagato. 
Asahina-san even bowed apologetically, "I'm sorry for hiding this from you, because Suzumiya- 

san had forbidden us to say anything " What's really amazing is that Haruhi had managed to 

keep Nagato's mouth shut as well. Anyway, it was understandable, since even I had completely 
forgotten such an important day. After going through so much stuff, the arrival of Valentine's 
Day was the last thing I could think of then and it had quietly slipped past my consciousness. 

I entered my room and hurriedly opened the three small boxes, but I did not intend to have them 
as my dinner as Haruhi had asked me to. Inside the transparent plastic box was a cake coated 
with a chocolate layer. 

Haruhi's cake was round, while Asahina-san's was heart-shaped, and Nagato's was star-shaped. 
On top of every cake were some words written using white chocolate cream. 



Haruhi simply wrote the description of the cake "CHOCOLATE"; Nagato's cake was written in 
very proper handwriting "COURTESY"; while Asahina-san's was written "OBLIGATION 
CHOCOLATE", just when I was thinking this doesn't sound like her style, I noticed there was 
more to it. Under her box was the corner of a handkerchief, with a message that read "Suzumiya- 
san asked me to write it like that," It seems to have been written in a hurry. I imagined how the 
three of them worked their hats off in Nagato's kitchen, and then placed the three present boxes 
into the refrigerator. That reminds me, I gotta remind my sister not to nick those cakes as well. 


As the sun began to set, I got on my bike and began pedaling. 

The final checkpoint was near Nagato's apartment complex, the long bench inside the park. 

Inside the dim, empty park, the bench that was brightly illuminated by the street lamps was 
empty. Even after parking my bike and walking into the park, there was not a single person in 
sight. 

I sat on the icy-cold bench and said towards the air, 

"Are you there, Asahina-san?" 

A rustling noise was heard from the bushes behind the bench, and the person I was waiting for 
walked around the bench and made her appearance, 

"Is it okay for me to sit down?" 

Of course it is, we may even chat for a long while. 

"Hee hee, I'm afraid I might have to make things brief." 

Asahina-san's (big) elegantly beautiful figure was now sitting on the empty space beside me. 
Wearing winter attire, Asahina-san was no different from anyone else, save that frost-melting 
beauty of hers. 

After inhaling the cold air of winter, I breathed out some white vapors and said, 

"Can you explain everything now?" 

"Now where should I start?" 

"You can start from the first prank which the little Asahina-san and I had to carry out like an 
errand." 


The prank where a poor man had to go to hospital for getting his foot injured after kicking a can 
that was nailed to the ground. It now felt like ages ago when I mentioned it again. 



Was that really necessary? 


Asahina-san tilted her head and smiled softly, 

"Kyon-kun, please think carefully. Whether it be a few years ago or a few decades ago, if you 
could go back to the past " 

She carefully chose her words, 

"And witness history in the making. Yet when that history is different from what you remember, 
what would you do?" 

"What do you mean by 'different?'" I didn't understand what she was getting at. 

"Let's say if you went back to one year ago today, what were you doing then?" 

Probably shut up in my room playing video games. I don't remember getting giddy over someone 
sending me chocolates then. 

Asahina-san nodded her head slightly, 

"Now try to imagine a situation that's different from that version of the past. When you travel 
back to your home one year ago, but find that you weren't living there. Instead of your sister or 
your parents, the place was now occupied by another family. Even your relatives have become 
different from the ones which you knew, living a totally different life in another place " 

How is that possible? 

"When, after traveling to the past we find out that history is slightly different than it was as we 
knew it, do you know what we from the future would think? If every moment in history 
depended on interference from the future, then our future would never be able to exist if we did 
not interfere, and everything would change " 

Asahina-san's voice began to stray away, as though feeling nostalgic about something. 

"A past where someone dies when they're supposed to live; or where two people have never even 
seen each other when they're supposed to be good friends; if we leave these situations alone, then 
our future would never arrive " 

Her lonely smile was now cast in a lonely shroud, 

"I'll get to the point. The person who got injured kicking the empty can that you placed will meet 
a certain lady in the hospital. Afterwards, they get married and have children, and pass the torch 
to the next generation. This was all because he went to the hospital that day, otherwise those two 
would never have met in their whole lives." 



An image of the man smiling uncomfortably while looking up at me and Asahina-san flashed 
before my eyes. 

"The memory device was the same, it was necessary to deliver the data in that condition. 
Someone may have stumbled on similar data by coincidence, only this coincidence didn't exist in 
the past, perhaps it was erased. That was why we had to deliver the data ourselves, and try our 
best to make it look like a coincidence." 

"Someone picks up a memory device from a flower bed, and just happens to send it to someone 
else at the right address." - She continued to explain. 

I didn't know how to respond. That sure wasn't coincidental, not to mention the freak that 
appeared then, and handed the memory device to us. If he had decided to create trouble, then 
how would things turn out? 

"He wouldn't dare, that piece of data means everything to the existence of his future as well. That 
was why he came to this time period," 

Asahina-san elaborated in simple terms. 

"For us future time -travelers, that is a pre-determined event; but for you and the recipient of the 
data, it's a coincidence. That's how time works," 


I feel a bit dizzy, maybe it's because the dialog had broken through the boundaries of my 
comprehension with so much ease. 

"It was also coincidence that the boy had seen the turtle. He will always remember the little turtle 
he obtained from a young man and young woman, as well as the ripples caused by the young 
man dropping the turtle into the water, and how the ripples slowly disappear as they dispersed 
from the center. As turtles live very long lives, every time he picks up the turtle he would always 
think of the scene he saw then. Though there were many other factors, but it all came from this 
event, which would inspire him to formulate a set of basic theories." 

Could it be while feeling dizzy, my imagination began to go wild. Perhaps that boy would one 

day become the inventor of the time machine, and the one who inspired him to think about the 
turtle turns out to be me, causing changes in the future. Thanks to my unconscious interference, 
that boy and the future of this world has 

A memory from a corner of my brain was suddenly awoken. It was a few days before the school 
festival, something that Nagato said to me at a time when I was mightily busy while shooting the 
climax of the movie, 


In order to stabilize the future, it is necessary to input the correct value. Asahina Mikuru 's 
mission is to adjust that variable to an acceptable value. 



Now was not the time to be feeling giddy about how good my memory was. The ambiguous 
phrase "in order to stabilize the future"... "There could only be one future, whether it was stable 
or not, right?" I had long since abandoned that idea. 

Could the future be unstable? 

In other words, could there exist other futures apart from Asahina-san's future? 

It would make sense if that's the case, but only a little. If the future really diverged into many 
different branches, then there once existed two futures where the boy survives in one and is now 
dead in the other, it's just that I've killed off the possibility of the latter from ever happening. 

That means thanks to my help, I had destroyed one future completely. 

I didn't know if that was the correct answer. Even though this deduction was so weak that if I 
were to say "Here's a problem for our readers to discuss", I'd probably be condemned as an idiot; 
but it wasn't easy trying to dispel a wild thought that I had just formulated. When I thought about 
this, I just didn't know what to say. Was there more? 

"The divergence points are mostly concentrated in this time period, though a lot would end up 
the same, anyway; but the things that you have done the past few days, if not done, would create 
divergences that would lead to all sorts of futures " 

Asahina-san's charming voice began to grow weak, 

"Very soon you will be faced with a great divergence, a choice that would cause a great change 
to the future If you chose the other side, then it um it wouldn't be good for our future." 

I suddenly felt stiff for no reason, and I had wanted to turn and face Asahina-san. Damn, why 
can't I turn my face!? 

"But it doesn't matter, because I can trust you, right?" 

My consciousness began to blur, a familiar image begins to form in my dizzy mind, two curvy 
lines criss-crossing each other. The figure on the white board rotated in my mind, and in this 
whirlpool I saw two spots marked "X". There were two X's, that's what Koizumi said. 

The past can never be completely erased. After being amended history would simply be rewritten 
over its original time-space. 

This triggered another memory - we had experienced being in that never-ending two weeks of 
summer vacation for thousands of times already. 

Except for Nagato, the rest of us only remembered what happened in the final two weeks, the 
previous thousands of times were as though they never existed. Then the answer became 
obvious. 



The past can be erased, in fact it wasn't a question of whether it existed or not. Even if it did, it's 
as good as non-existent if no one had noticed it. So in order to achieve that 


One would need to erase all memories of that past. 

If all my memories of my experience between December 18th and 21st, as well as leaping back 
three years ago and getting stabbed by Asakura were all erased, what would have happened to 
me when I woke up in the hospital bed? I would probably have believed what Koizumi had told 
me - that I merely tripped down the stairs and knocked my head, then lain unconscious for three 
days. 

Nagato the Literature Club member, Asahina-san the Calligraphy Club member, Haruhi with her 
surprisingly fitting ponytail, and Koizumi as a completely normal person. If my memories of 
these people were each erased, then one would not have to worry about any time loops or 
traveling back in time to fix history. 

Yet, things just wouldn't fit that way. 

In the early morning of the 18th, after being attacked by Asakura, as I came close to death, I saw 
myself from the future. I realized then that I had to go back to that time. The only person who 
could provide a remedy to the astray Nagato was Nagato from three years ago, and the person to 
execute that remedy was the Nagato from January 2nd. Only these were essential. 

After that, time was rewritten 

I felt myself shivering. Haruhi knew absolutely nothing about this, neither did Taniguchi or 
Kunikida. The only ones who knew about this were me, Nagato, Asahina-san, and Koizumi who 
had heard about it. 

If that's the case, it's not impossible that I could already be in Haruhi's position. I might or might 
not be aware that history was being rewritten; if I did not possess the original memories, then the 
"Truth" would never exist. 

Besides, it's possible that while I was worrying about all these considerations in the present, my 
past could be rewritten in another time period. My present self would cease to exist, my past self 
would move towards another future, and this was all because of the alteration in that time period. 

"Erase all your memories concerning this incident." 

"No one can guarantee that something that hasn't happened would ever occur." 

The Asahina-san from a week later once guaranteed that she has never seen herself, so I went to 
great lengths to make sure they never see each other. If they really do meet, I don't suppose much 
harm could be done. 



That's because the problem could be solved simply by erasing the present Asahina-san's memory, 
so that when she travels back to the past a week ago she wouldn't have remembered a thing. So it 
doesn't make much of a difference whether they met or not. 

I felt a surge of negative feelings coming from my chest, this being the same feeling that I vented 
against the Integrated Data Sentient Entity when lying in the hospital bed last time, but this time 
those feelings were towards Asahina-san (big). 

She had been toying with her past self, that is Asahina-san (small), in the palm of her hand. 
Making this Asahina-san play the role of a clumsy and unreliable cute elder-sister. Yeah, I know 
you had no choice, but to allow your past self to experience history as you had remembered it. 
This must be what Koizumi was saying about the future doing something about the past. But 
couldn't you come up with something better? 

The curse that was constraining my head was finally released, I nearly spent an hour just trying 
to get out of this dizziness. Yet by the time I wanted to say what I was feeling, I found there was 
no one standing beside me. 

Asahina-san had vanished into thin air just next to me, only I remained sitting on the bench under 
the dimly lit street lamps. However, in Asahina-san's place on the bench was a small box. 

It was a delicately wrapped, square-shaped box with a ribbon on top. 

It even came with a card. Placing it under the light, I found a single line that said, "Happy 
Valentine". 

A box of chocolate that could be found anywhere, without any flavors or styles from the future. 
Are chocolate recipes the same throughout the ages? Or did she make this chocolate according to 
the recipes of this time period? 

"But Asahina-san " 

You can't just keep me quiet like that. Yeah, you did make an exception and provided 
information, but that's not good enough. Leaving aside the fact that you said nothing about you 
getting kidnapped, but you were obviously hiding the truth behind Haruhi's treasure hunting and 
the gourd-shaped rock on purpose! That's right, there's something fishy about this. Haruhi could 
have buried the chocolates anywhere, for what reason must it be buried by that gourd-shaped 
rock? And why did it have to be moved in the first place? 

Could this all be within the calculations of Asahina-san (big)? Has she clearly listed everything 
that I would do in her pre-determined list? 


Everything is now over. 



Looks like it's still too early for that. There'll come a day when I would come to this place again, 
I might very well bring everyone from the SOS Brigade then, so you'd better come up with a 
satisfactory explanation for Koizumi and Haruhi! I'm just a mere observer, after all. 


I quickly made a phone call, 

"Hello? Is that Tsuruya-san? It's me, well um, Michiru-san has gone home already, she wanted 
me to thank you for taking care of her, and she said she would return the clothes you lent 

her huh, really? Oh and, when you see Asahina-san the day after tomorrow apologizing to you 

for no reason, please let her be. And can you please bring the North High uniform she left behind 
to school tomorrow? Yes, bring it to me before school ends," 

This was all that I needed to do up till now, after hearing Tsuruya-san going "Okay-" on the 
other side of the phone, I adjusted my breathing and said, 

"There's one more thing I need to tell you, and this is the most important. You know your 
family's private hill? The one with the treasure map, that is. I see, it's fine. I never thought Haruhi 

would go in such a large circle just to Yeah, I got four, um I mean, three from them. It's pretty 

interesting," 

I tried to suppress Tsuruya-san's deafening laughter and continued, 

"You know from that treasure map, you could actually climb the hill from a path that leads from 
the marsh grass fields? Great, that makes things easier to explain. From this path you'll come to a 
flat plateau, do you know there's a rock that resembles the shape of a gourd? I'm not kidding, 
honest. Go east about three meters from that rock and try digging on that spot, who knows, you 
might find something." 

I then said to Tsuruya-san, who was sounding very puzzled, 

"I don't have any evidence, so I can't be absolutely sure. But there should be something," 

If I hadn't moved the stone from that place, Haruhi would have probably asked us to dig on that 
spot the moment she saw the rock. And she might have ended up discovering something that's 
not supposed to be found and discovered. 

All I did was merely move the stone westwards for about three meters. 

After giving some random responses to Tsuruya-san, I hung up the phone. 



This is a small act of defiance from me, Asahina-san (big). I have no intention of playing mind 
games with you and your different versions of futures, I just want to play a prank from time to 
time. 

Though I wouldn't go as far as Haruhi would, of course. 


( Chapter Seven End ) 


Epilogue 

Epilogue 


The next day, after just making it to school on time I barged into the classroom, and ignoring 
Taniguchi looking grumpy and Kunikida chatting with other classmates, I sat down and began 
flirting with the person behind me, 

"Hey, how's it going?" 

"I'm fine, of course!" 

Has Haruhi's gentle cat-smile, an indicator of her being up to no good, returned? Whoa! She 
didn't even look at me when she made that grin. Looks like she's the sort that would change 
moods after sleeping for one night. 

When the first bell rang, Haruhi stretched her neck from behind and whispered to my ear, 

"Kyon, I'm warning you, don't go around talking about what happened yesterday. Especially not 

to Taniguchi. This has got be kept a secret at all costs, or else it'll be so embarra ahem, 

anyway just don't go around announcing it. Gifts are best cherished." 

What the hell are you talking about? Once something has entered my pocket, don't even think of 
wanting it back, especially when it comes to food! 

"Who says I'm asking you to return it? What are you getting so uptight for? If I wanted it back, I 
wouldn't have given it to you in the first place. Anyway, we're gonna be busy after school, so be 
prepared." 


Roger that. Actually, I haven't been able to relax today, as I've got to send today's Asahina-san 
back to eight days ago as well as receive the Asahina-san traveling from two days ago. Only then 
would this long week come to a close. 


During lunch that day, Tsuruya-san came to the classroom to look for me. It was good that 
Haruhi, who rarely brings a boxed lunch, had gone to the cafeteria. I put down my half-eaten 
boxed lunch and headed towards her as she yelled "Kyon-kun~!" 

"Let's talk somewhere else," 

Tsuruya-san pulled my tie and dragged me towards the staircase before stopping just next to the 
door leading towards the roof. Haruhi had also brought me to this dark staircase, with all sorts of 
arts and crafts scattered about as before. 

"I'll cut to the chase," 

Tsuruya-san smiled cautiously and took out a stack of photos from her pocket. 

"Kyon-kun, just how did you know there was something buried there? That totally took me by 
surprise, you know." 

You actually found something? So what did you find? 

"Enough to surprise you!" 

Tsuruya-san spread out the photos in a fan shape, 

"The first surprise is, when I began digging, there really was a three-hundred-year-old pot down 
there coming out to say 'hi' to me!" 

The photo she handed to me showed a pot with cracks all over, using a white wall as a 
background. 

"Are you sure it's over three-hundred years? 

"Absolutely sure! I even took it for some radiometric dating, but it's what's inside that's even 
more amazing!" 

The second photograph showed a crummy old piece of paper, with some words written in 
hiragana, but it still looked blurry to me. The only thing I could see clearly was a familiar picture 
of a mountain on the edge of the paper, with a small "X" written on it. No guesswork was 
required to figure out what the "X" was referring to in the plateau. 



"This was really written by Tsuruya Yauemon, my great-great ancestor. The letter says 'I felt a 
bit uneasy after obtaining such a strange object, so I decided to bury it', it's dated at 15 Genroku." 

Haruhi also mentioned something like that being written on her treasure map, but that was a 
copy, while this was the real thing. 

"But this Yauemon-jisan sure is absent minded, burying the letter and the treasure together. How 
are we supposed to find it that way?" 

Tsuruya-san smiled as she pointed to a third photo. 

"What's this?" 

As the object was within the frames of the photo, I had no idea how large it actually was. It 
looked like a metallic rod about ten centimeters long. The surface was still shining so brightly it 
didn't look like it had been buried for three-hundred years. Upon closer inspection, one could see 
lines that resembled circuit wires, spread all over like a spider web. The pattern looked irregular 
at first sight, yet it was elegantly symmetric. Was this really something made during the Edo 
period? 

"We only found the letter and this in the pot! But here comes the problem, no one would believe 
that our ancestors' time capsule could contain with such a thing " 

Tsuruya-san enthusiastically waved the photos and said, 

"Let me tell you, that thing is made of a titanium-cesium alloy!" 

Now that was truly shocking, I should find Kunikida and tell him so I could freak myself out 
again. 

"It's simply impossible to find the technology on earth three-hundred years ago to make such an 
alloy. The guy who helped me do the testing said if this was really from hundreds of years ago, 
then it either has to be an artifact from some super ancient civilization, or an item that a future 
time-traveler left before, or else it could be the fragment of an alien spaceship!" 

Please don't let it be from a super ancient civilization 

"But, doesn't this looks like a spare part for some object?" 

Tsuruya-san studied the third photo and then smiled cheerfully towards me, 

"So what do you think, Kyon-kun? Would you pick an alien or a time traveler?" 

I was left speechless when her innocent face suddenly came up with such a question. 


It would be better for you to decide quickly! 



The mysterious object found inside the pot stamped with the seal of the Tsuruya clan was placed 
under safe-keeping at the Tsuruya residence. It was reassuring to see Tsuruya-san slapping her 
chest as she promised to take good care of it, but that's to be expected. The priority is to make 
sure Haruhi hears nothing about this, but to be honest, I've got a bad feeling about it. I hope 
things will never turn out that way, and truth be told, I don't want to think about it any more 

I just have a feeling this spare part would make itself useful one day. 

I wonder if I've told Tsuruya-san about this too soon? Would it have been a better idea, not 
telling anyone as well as not digging it myself? 

But could I do it? After realizing something amazing must be buried there, could I play dumb 
and pretend there's nothing there? My curiosity burns so strongly that if I see a word I don't 
understand, I search the internet until I find out everything about it. 

Besides, Haruhi might have decided to go back and dig some more. So it was good for this 
mysterious device that it could return to the safe-keeping of Tsuruya clan. Should a day arrive 
when the people from the ancient civilization, time travelers, or aliens would appear to claim the 
device back, judging from Haruhi's behavior, she would certainly tell them to go to hell. I never 
want her to see such an object, because those people would probably disguise their identities just 
as Asahina-san and Nagato have. Instead of traveling back to the past to keep the present intact, 
it's better to do my best to take precautions against any unforeseen events in the future, since the 
present is where I reside, after all. 


After parting ways with Tsuruya-san and returning to the classroom, I found Haruhi munching 
on my boxed lunch. 

"Hey! That's mine!" 

"Of course, I know that! I wouldn't eat a stranger's boxed lunch." 

That doesn't mean you should eat the boxed lunch of someone you know! Spit it out! 

"Let's leave that aside for now," Haruhi placed the chopsticks into the empty boxed lunch and 
shoved it over, while looking at me with a strange expression, 


What's with that gross expression, just what're you grinning at? 



Grinning? You tell me why on earth I would grin. Touching my face, I realized Haruhi was 
telling the truth, the muscles on my face must have been either relaxed or contorted. 

"Freak." 

After making such a rude remark, Haruhi turned her head away. Her silky hair waved along and 
revealed her tiny ears. 

At this point I suddenly understood something. 

The reason why I'm unconsciously grinning. I wonder how I could still grin after going through 
so much this past week. Aside from having to spend time with the other Asahina-san, a new 
group of time -travelers and another esper organization have appeared, trying to cause all sorts of 
mischief like kidnapping Asahina-san. I won't be seeing the last of them, not to mention a rival 
alien faction could stick their heads in as well. To add insult to injury, a mysterious device was 
dug up on the hill. It just isn't the time to grin like an idiot. 

Anyone who thinks that way is a simplistic idiot, and I have no intention of becoming one. That's 
right, by now I've realized this point, which was why I didn't keep such an uptight expression. 

To date I've already experienced plenty of unfortunate events, and it will probably go on this 
way. However, I don't seem to be fazed by it all; in fact, I now feel that no matter what comes 
my way, they could bring it on. 

Was it because I didn't give a damn about them? The wave would be imminent, but I won't be 
alone! I would have Nagato, Koizumi, and Asahina-san by my side supporting me, while Haruhi 
would place her hands on her waist and sit in front of me with her legs crossed, and Tsuruya-san 
would stand behind me laughing all the way. I don't care whether you're an ally, a foe, a neutral, 
or just have a common interest with us, so bring it on! 

I closed the lid on the boxed lunch Haruhi handed me, and covered it with a handkerchief before 
placing it in my bag. 

Calling me a freak, aren't you looking just as freakish with that expression of yours? Did I really 
look weird just now? 

"Hey, Haruhi," 

"What?" 

I said to Haruhi, who had wrinkles on her forehead, 

"The future of the SOS Brigade depends on you." 


Haruhi looked stunned for a while, 



Of course it does! 


Her lips instantly formed a grin as she shouted, 
"I founded this brigade, after all!" 


After school, thinking that my work would be done once I had arranged for the two Asahina-sans 
to switch places, I had nearly forgotten about the "favor" Haruhi asked me to be ready for earlier 
this morning. Well, I didn't exactly forget, it's just that this activity was much bigger than I had 
expected. 

First, Haruhi said she was planning to hold a lottery using Amidakuji, with Asahina-san dressed 
as a miko while giving out the prize to the winner; then the drawing point of this contest turned 
out to be 

"The SOS Brigade's Belated Asahina Mikuru Handmade Valentine's Day Chocolate Amidakuji 
Contest! Admission is 500 yen each!" 

When I think of Haruhi carrying her loudspeaker and making her presence known everywhere, I 
shudder as I am reminded of how naively stupid I had been. 

At the Belated Asahina-san Handmade Valentine's Day Chocolate Amidakuji Contest, the papers 
used for drawing lots were as long as a large scroll. Though the admission fee was a whopping 
500 yen, I can imagine everyone fighting to get in the front of the line as we cheerfully watch our 
income grow rapidly to a five digit sum. Besides Koizumi's and mine, it seems Asahina-san had 
made a third obligatory chocolate as well for this occasion. Like hell I was going to donate my 
chocolate cake for this god-forsaken contest anyway. 

"Actually, Nagato-san was the one who helped out in everything " 


Dressed in a miko attire suitable for any time period if she were to travel through time, Asahina- 
san stood on the grass field out at the courtyard and spoke apologetically to me. Once home 
room session was over, Haruhi had gone and dragged Asahina-san into the club room and forced 
her to put on that miko costume, though I have no idea how she obtained it. Looks like Haruhi 
was still feeling inspired about what I had incidentally said while throwing beans during 
Setsubun. 

Under Haruhi's barked orders, Koizumi and I carried the long table from the club room 
downstairs and placed it on the grass field outside. Haruhi then held up her loudspeaker and 
began to make her move, while Nagato was assigned the task of cashier. 



Very quickly, the male students began to swarm the courtyard like zombies attracted by fresh 
meat. The atmosphere was so surreal one can't help, but worry about the state this country was 
headed to. When I saw that even Taniguchi and Kunikida were amongst the crowd, I began to 
worry about the future of my classmates as well. 

Using her loudspeaker, Haruhi began to organize the crowd which was largely guys with a few 
girls scattered around, 

"If you want to participate, line up here in front of Yuki! You'll be handed a number card once 
you've paid your 500 yen. Once you have the card, head to Koizumi-kun, where he'll write your 
number in your preferred slot as well as draw as many horizontal lines wherever you like ! " 

As Nagato efficiently dealt with the queue, Koizumi had to frantically draw lots of straight lines 
with a ruler on the large B4 paper. It seems he would need more than one piece of paper, as it 
looks like he'll be drawing hundreds of lines. 

The number of papers that Koizumi had to cellotape together increased at the same pace as the 
number of times I turned to glance at my watch. Oh shit, at this rate, I'll never make it on 
time 

Asahina (Michiru)-san would return on 4: 16PM, so I had to send this Asahina-san away by 
4:15PM, not to mention the time needed for her to change back to her uniform first. 

The minute hand had already gone past 4 o'clock, but Nagato still hadn't finished handing out the 
number cards, and Koizumi still had plenty of lines to draw. 

Asahina-san stood by the side, holding the present box, her smile rather stiff for a mascot. Looks 
rather cold to cosplay as a miko at this time of year, doesn't it? But there's no point in wondering 
about these issues. As I was busy calculating how long it would take to change from a miko 
costume to a school uniform, the Amidakuji was finally complete. As expected, the papers used 
are together as long as a large scroll. It's certainly a scene to behold. 

Haruhi casually picked up a pen and randomly picked one line out of dozens of them, and drew a 
heart shape at the bottom, she then added another bunch of horizontal lines. 

"Now come! Only one can reach this heart and win the Valentine Chocolate handmade by 
Asahina! You'll definitely cry tears of joy if you win! We'll begin on the right side!" 

It was already exhausting trying to trace which line the heart would reach from, but are you 
trying to kill me by wasting so much more time ! ? Though the odds of winning in one go are now 
very slim, Haruhi is sure putting a lot of effort into stirring up the atmosphere, but I really don't 
have much time for this ! 

Oblivious to my anxiety, Haruhi placed the portable hi-fi on the table and pressed the play 
button, a cheerful melody began to play. Orpheus in the Underworld ? This isn't a sports fair, 
dammit! ( It's common for Japanese schools to play this song during sports fairs. ) 



Looks like I've got to resort to desperate measures, I must have pretty good karma for Lady Luck 
to be sitting right by my side. 


"I'm sorry, Nagato," 

I pretend to look at the coins and paper money stacked up like a hill inside the senbei box as I 
whisper softly to the ear of the cashier sitting on the chair beside the table, 

"Please let this draw be over in one try, there's no time left!" 

Nagato was staring straight at Asahina-san, shivering non-stop because of the cold wind, as she 
heard my prayer. She then turned to take a glance at me, and then silently stood up. Just before 
Haruhi began drawing lots from the right side with a red pen, Nagato quietly and elegantly adds 
one more line. 


Ten minutes later, I was pulling Asahina-san's little hand and rushing towards the club room. 
"Wah, Kyon-kun ! It hurts, what's going on?" 

Even if it means having to drag Asahina-san and make her cry, I couldn't care less anymore, as 
there 're only five minutes left! 

"I'll explain everything to you afterwards, but we'll be in trouble if we don't hurry!" 

I carried the tiny miko upper-classman and climbed up the stairs three steps at a time. 

As expected from Nagato, the draw was over in just one draw. Seeing how the first student 
chosen had won the prize so effortlessly, besides being stunned, Haruhi and everyone else 
couldn't hide their disappointment. Well, there's only one winner after all, so don't take it 
personally, guys. Still keen on keeping the atmosphere on a high, Haruhi changed the 
background music this time to See, the Conqu'ring hew comes. She then forcefully pulled the 
student who had card number 56 and made the student stand face to face with Asahina-san. By 
the way, the winner was a cute, curly-haired first- year girl - the way she looked shy and 
embarrassed sure was mesmerizing. Under a strange atmosphere, Asahina-san stiffly passed the 
chocolate to the girl, and under Haruhi's instruction, they both shook hands, at which point the 
crowd suddenly roared into a thunderous applause. I didn't understand what they were so joyous 
for. I still had to wait for Haruhi to take a photo of the two of them with a tripod camera she 
obtained from god-knows where. It's gonna be troublesome if this goes on any longer! 

I quickly grabbed Asahina-san's hand before she even had a chance to say anything, and headed 
straight for the building complex without time to even come up with an excuse. Finally, we 
arrived at the door of the club room. 



"Eh, where, wha ? Kyon-kun ?" 

I can't really blame Asahina-san for looking so confused after being dragged to the club room so 
suddenly. 

"Hurry up and change!" 

I took her uniform hanging on the clothes rack and shoved it into her hands, 

"Do it in three minutes, quickly!" 

I don't know whether it's the tone of my voice or the terrifying look on my face, Asahina-san 
trembled as she nodded her head, but she made no sign of taking off her costume at all. Dammit! 

I might as well take it off for you! Just as I decided to do it anyway, her little white hand pointed 
towards the door. 

"Urn " 

"What now!?" 

"Can you please go outside first?" 

I spun out of the room in less than a second and began to look at my watch as I leaned against the 
closed door. The time was now 12 minutes 33 seconds. 

"Asahina-san, are you done yet!?" 

" N, not yet!" 

It's just that I was already anxious enough trying to make sure Haruhi wasn't chasing along. 

There was no time for me to daydream about the sound being made by the articles of clothing 
rubbing against each other. 

"Asahina-san!" 

"Just a little longer " 

It was now past 4: 14PM, I can't wait any longer! I quickly barged into the room. 

"Wah! Kyon-kun! I'm not, wah, kyaa!" 

Asahina-san's eyes widened as she stood stiffly with her hand placed on the zip of her sailor 
uniform. The white kimono shirt and red hakama on the floor was proof that she had been 
changing, but now's not the time for tidying up. 

I placed my hands on her shoulders and pushed her towards the broom locker. 



"WAH! K, Kyon-kun!" 

I was at fault for ignoring Asahina-san's yell as I pushed her. Her legs tripped and as a result, I 
ended up falling on top of her. 

"Wah! No, don't " 

Just what the hell was I doing? I had no time to enjoy seeing her look vulnerable. I quickly 
picked up Asahina-san in her sailor uniform, loudly opened the stainless steel door of the broom 
locker, and promptly shoved her inside. 

"Asahina-san, listen carefully. Please travel at once to eight days ago from this time! Don't ask 
anymore, just do it!" 

Still feeling shell-shocked, she said teary-eyed, 

" But, I still haven't received authorization " 

"Please! There's no time!" 

"Eight days ago, is it? What time?" 

Damn it! Hurry up and remember! Just what time was it then? What did Asahina-san say to me 
that time? "You told me to return here at exactly " 

"3:45PM! Hurry up and go!" 

"O, okay huh?" 

Like a little animal, Asahina-san looked innocently at me. Her eyes then widened as she placed 
her hand on her head, 

"The authorization came even before I even applied. Time coordinates eight days ago, 

February 7th, 3:45PM Right here? Huh? Top Priority Clearance ?" 

"You'll understand when you get there, I should be there waiting for you. My past self will take 
care of everything from here onwards, remember to say 'hi' to him for me," 

It was less than ten seconds to 4:15PM. 

I nodded to a terrified looking Asahina-san, and gently closed the door to the broom locker. 
Within the stainless steel locker, I could not hear anything from within. 

As the saying goes, what goes around comes around, karma comes back to haunt what one has 
done, I have never felt about this so strongly before now. The reason I'm catching my breath now 
was all because on the day before yesterday, I had set Asahina-san's return coordinates at 



4:16PM. At that time, I never thought it would be so nerve wracking, but in the end it's all my 
fault. 

"Asahina-san?" 

I tried speaking through the stainless steel door, there was no response. I knew it was a waste of 
time as well. Besides, I didn't give any warnings to my past self eight days ago, since I never 
heard of any warnings myself, and Asahina-san said nothing about it. Even if I wanted to, there 
was no time. 

The watch now showed the time to be three seconds past 4: 15PM. 

It was extraordinarily quiet. Besides myself, the only sound that can be heard in the empty club 
room was the breeze and the sound of the crowd outside, haven't they dispersed yet? 

I stood in front of the broom locker and waited quietly. 

"Klunk!" 

I don't know how else to describe this - A strange sound emanated from inside the broom locker. 

I knew there was someone inside even without listening to the sound of their breathing. It was 
exactly 4: 16PM, the stainless steel locker suddenly felt like an antique piece of furniture to me 
for some reason. 

I opened the door and spoke the line that I prepared to welcome her back, 

"Welcome back, Asahina-san," 

Wearing the large coat Tsuruya-san lent her, it had been 48 hours since I last saw this Asahina- 
san. 

"Ah um " 

Asahina-san blushed and lowered her head, and then slowly lifted it again. With trepidation, she 
slowly moved her crystal clear eyes upwards and finally stopped when they met my eyes. 

A while later, a smile appeared on her face. Her pink lips blossomed like a cottonrose hibiscus as 
she spoke the following words, 

"I'm back." 



It would have been great if I could continue to spend time alone with Asahina-san like that, but 
the circumstances simply would not permit me to do such a thing. I'd better get her to change out 
of that casual wear, but there was still no sight of the uniform that Tsuruya-san had promised to 
bring. 

Looks like she'll just have to wear the miko costume again for now, and once again, I stepped 
outside of the club room and leaned against the door. 

By the way, it's strange that Haruhi didn't come to ask for my head. While it was good that 
everything was going fine, it's worrying that it can sometimes be too fine for comfort. At the 
same time, along came a person carrying a paper bag, if she had arrived earlier, I wouldn't have 
had to go through so much trouble. 

"Hey! Sorry, Kyon-kun, here, Mikuru's uniform and indoor shoes. I had wanted to give them to 
you during lunch, but I forgot, " 

Tsuruya-san stepped closer to me, 

"What's going on? I see Haru-nyan up to something in the courtyard, and where's Mikuru?" 

Tsuruya-san smiled meaningfully when I silently pointed to the club room door, and proceeded 
to turn the door knob as though opening her own refrigerator door. 

"Oh, Mikuru. Are you changing? Oh that's just excellent, you can take these clothes back 

home," 

She then turned to wink at me, and then walked inside. Though I could only squat outside in the 
corridor and stare at the wall, it's not hard to imagine the surprised look on Asahina-san's face, 
since I've seen that look many times already. 

"Let me help you! Getting changed- Huh? You're cosplaying as a miko today?" 

I leaned against the wall and heard Asahina-san's confused-sounding yelps and Tsuruya-san's 
child-like laughter. Tsuruya-san probably never gave a thought as to why Asahina-san would 
take off clothes of a younger twin sister she's not supposed to have met before. We both knew it 
was pointless trying to explain further, yet the wonderful thing about Tsuruya-san is that she 
never seems to mind. Looks like I won't be able to look at her without feeling inferior for the rest 
of my life. 

As I began to smile wryly, Haruhi triumphantly returned, bringing Nagato and Koizumi, who 
was carrying the long table. She strutted in such a boastful way, tapping the floor tiles loudly as 
she stepped and shaking that money can in a loud and ridiculous manner. If she were on a fishing 
boat, she would probably be brandishing her flag to show off what a catch she'd made today. 


Why'd you suddenly take Mikuru-chan away? We were booed badly, you know? 



I was afraid she would catch a cold from wearing so few clothes. Besides, we're giving these 
guys a good bargain. Just for seeing Asahina-san in that costume, we should charge them an 
extra 500 yen! 

"Yes, you're right! We should've charged more. These occasions are hard to come by, after all," 

Haruhi actually agreed to what I said without hesitation, has she already come up with a new 
activity? 

"But Kyon, I sure was surprised. Yuki actually offered to give everyone a consolation prize," 
Haruhi patted her hand on Nagato's slim back, 

"You know those bargain chocolate packets? The ones with the chocolate brand names on them. 
Yuki personally went and gave one each to every person who didn't win! I never thought she 
would prepare such a thing, good job Yuki! You sure thought it out well. This is a brilliant idea, 
this way no matter what contest we hold, people can always expect a generous consolation prize 
even if they don't win!" 

They're probably only going to be looking forward to Nagato personally giving them a prize, I 
thought to myself. Before thanking her for thinking quickly on the spot, I should first of all thank 
her for buying time for me. 


Nagato slowly turned around, as though in a hurry to rush back to the club room and bury herself 
into her book. Only I could understand the expression she's made. 

At this moment, the club room door opened suddenly. 

"Oh, Tsuruya-san, you're here? What's with those clothes?" 

"Hey, Haru-nyan! I've lent these to Mikuru, I'm just coming to take them back, so don't worry 
about me taking her away from you ! " 

Tsuruya-san placed the long coat over her shoulders and stuffed the rest of the clothes into her 
paper bag, while spinning a shoe on the tip of her finger, 

"See ya later, Haru-nyan!" 

"OK, see you tomorrow, Tsuruya-san!" 

After clapping their hands together, Tsuruya-san disappeared at the end of the corridor. It was as 
though the stuff concerning Asahina-san and what she told me this lunch time never happened, 
she was still the same person as before. Not even I could act like her, she is just that amazing. 

The Tsuruya clan would definitely prosper with her in charge. 



Nagato drifted into the club room, randomly took a book down from the bookshelf, and like 
water flowing in a stream, elegantly settled on a steel chair and began to indulge in the world of 
her book. 

Haruhi stood by the side as she watched Koizumi and me carry the long table back inside, by 
which time she had noticed Asahina-san in her miko costume for some time. She said, 

"Mikuru-chan! We've amassed a great amount of funds today, so you'd better buy the best tea 
leaves as celebration! This is all thanks to you. For this achievement, I'm officially promoting 
you to Deputy Vice Commander! There's no need to be shy, Mikuru-chan, show some 
happiness!" 

Seeing how Haruhi was feeling so pleased with herself while sitting on the commander's desk, I 
picked the chair furthest away and laid exhausted on the long table. 

I am truly worn out. Now I finally understand how exhausting it is to tamper with time, trying to 
make sure that the effects line up with the causes. Even if I wanted to blame someone, I only 
have myself to blame. The arrow would still circle 360 degrees back to myself. Is the work of all 
future time -travelers as stressful as this? Looks like I'm going to have to be careful when talking 
with Asahina-san, otherwise I'll place a heavy psychological burden on her shoulders, and she'll 
probably roll up into a ball like an armadillo whenever she gets jabbed. 

"I don't mind sharing some of that burden, cleaning up the mess is my forte, after all," 

Koizumi said to me in a volume in which only I could hear, while opening the wrapping of the 
box of a card game, 

"I'm beginning to understand a bit concerning Suzumiya-san's plan," 

I lifted my head and found myself exchanging glances with Koizumi, who was studying his deck 
of cards with a grin. "I wonder which hair style suits you best?" said Haruhi while sitting 
Asahina-san on a chair and playing around with her hair. At the mercy of Haruhi, Asahina-san 
shut her eyes tightly like a cat whose hair was being brushed. I watched this scene play out as I 
said, 

"Didn't you say there was nothing unusual about Haruhi's behavior?" 

"That was what I meant, as treasure hunting and mystery searching are part of Suzumiya-san's 
regular activities. Maybe I should've said she's deliberately pretending as though nothing unusual 
is happening? Who would have thought that you would have completely forgotten about 
Valentine's Day? It's not just Suzumiya-san, I'm sure no one would forget. For guys like us, this 
is a day that we would at least pay some attention to even if we're not confident of receiving any 
chocolates. Of course Suzumiya-san would have thought you would be anxious about it, that was 
why she pretended nothing was happening. Having two consecutive days of mystery searches 



was a clear indication of her plan to drive you crazy about whether you would receive any 
chocolates on that day." 

Then wouldn't it be better if she could just directly put the chocolates in my shoe locker? That 
locker isn't reserved for time travelers, you know!? 

"Suzumiya-san is just the sort of person that likes to take such a convoluted route. If she had 
directly given them to you, she would have found it too boring. Besides, we worked very hard to 
dig out those treasures, so it was quite rewarding when we found them." 

Koizumi seems to be examining his cards as he continuously organizes them into various rows 
and columns. 

"I sure had a lot of fun, didn't you?" 

What's that supposed to mean? Is that a loaded question? 

Just as I was about to make a witty response 

"Hey, Kyon! Koizumi-kun! Whispering time's over!" 

The loud exclamation had Asahina-san waking up in surprise from her daydreams as well as 
catching the attention of me and Koizumi. Haruhi released her hands from Asahina-san's hair, 
which was tied into a bundle 

"Now, on to the main agenda!" 

She then smacked the white board, 

"Listen carefully, especially Kyon and Koizumi-kun!" 

Haruhi gave the smile of a strategist and talked to us like a cram school teacher teaching her 
honest yet dim-witted students, 

"We'll begin with the planned activities for March!" 

I glanced at the calendar for next month and said, 

"For Hinamatsuri??" 

Haruhi went speechless for a while, 

" Ah yes, that one as well," 


I'm amazed you forgot. 



"Of course I remembered! It's only through refreshing one's memories that one can discover new 
revelations, so there's no way I'd forget. March 3rd, huh? Right, we can toss rice cake offerings 
from the top floor corridor!" 

Now that's the first time I've heard of such a silly activity for Hinamatsuri. 

"Let's leave that aside for now, aren't you forgetting another bigger festival in March?" 

Haruhi's smile is as the stars from the center of the Milky Way shining through the powerful lens 
of a super-telescope. 

"Today I specifically want Kyon and Koizumi-kun to think on what they'll have to prepare for 
that day!" 

So what are you trying to say then? 

"I'm talking about White Day! On March 14th, when a guy receives an obligation chocolate or 
whatever confectioneries on Valentine's Day, they'll have to repay the favor by thirty times!" 

She's like a wild stallion running blindly with blinkers on, why must Haruhi choose the moment 
when everything is going right for her to get back to normal!? Returning thirty times the favor 
was probably calculated using Haruhi's inflation rate. 

"Yuki, Mikuru-chan, you can now ask for whatever you want! These two will do everything to 
get it for you ! " 

She pointed at me and Koizumi, 

"They'll get anything you want! Crane Maidens repaying their kindness are out of fashion, in this 
day and age people should offer things that are thousands of times more valuable than cloth!" 
(Story of the Crane Maiden) 

Haruhi then smiled pridefully, 

"Just as reference, let me give you an idea of the stuff that I want. Though I still haven't decided 
which one to get exactly, so I'll announce that in a few days time! I won't purposely ask for 
something that'll be impossible for you to obtain within a month's time, so don't you worry!" 

Haruhi spoke without reservations, just like how Kaguya-Hime comes up with ridiculously 
impossible tasks for the suitors who had came to ask for her hand in marriage. While hoping she 
isn't going to be asking for non-existent stuff like "Authentic Artifacts of Yamataikoku" or the 
"Elixir of Life from Horaijima", I said to Haruhi, 


"Just so you know, we may take into account the amount of effort we'll spend on finding your 
treasure," 



By the time I realize my retort may backfire, it was already too late. 

"No problem!" 

Haruhi's eyes glittered brightly, totally eclipsing the brilliance of the entire Pleiades 
constellation. 

"That's the attitude I want! As long as it's anything that I want, I will get it even if I have to go all 
the way to Mars! Isn't that right, Yuki, Mikuru-chan?" 

Seeing Asahina-san looking awkward and Nagato nodding her head while keeping her eyes 
glued to her book, Koizumi and I both shrug our shoulders at the same time, as though it had all 
been rehearsed before. 


(Epilogue End) 


Author's Notes 

Author's Notes 


Why is it that one knows not what one will do in the future, nor what one thought of it back 
then? 

Rather than speaking of not knowing, many would say instead that "I have forgotten what I 
thought about back then." Therefore to make sure that you won't forget, you should make notes. 
Although there will be times when you won't even remember what such records mean. For 
example... 

...before I started the epilogue, I dug into my previous records and there are many ambiguities in 
what I recorded. I can't help but think, "why is it that I just don't understand the things I did?" It 
should not be on account of changes in my way of thinking, but rather I must have picked up 
some strange, enigmatic transmissions back there and then subconsciously jotted them down in 
my note." "Myth of millions strands of Beni shoga [1]" and "Medley of Pavlov" are things that 
puzzle me every time when I try to make sense of their meanings. Why is it that I would write 
such things down? 


I must have thought this: "As long as I write them down, I should be able to immediately 
remember these things when reading through them the next time." I guess I was full of 
confidence in my memorization skills back in those days. Whereas today I have absolutely no 
clue about the tiniest bit of the original questions. At any rate, they must have been some 
meaningless trivialities. However if they were something interesting, I would be quite furious 
over losing out to myself of the past (?some part of my past? - sounds better and keeps more in 
tone with Ch07). 

A lesson to learn here is that one must document ideas carefully when taking notes. Although 
another lesson is that you might still have no idea what you jotted down... 


This novel is the longest in the entire series. 

Since Disappearance, the stories in the novel have been set during winter, and finally winter 
ends here and now. After this I will be penning the tales from the following spring. Though I 
might mention that my favorite season is early summer, because in this time you can hear the 
idling frogs and the busy singing of birds, their sounds mixing in a duet. By then, you'll be away 
from the cold for a good long while. How nice is that! 1000 

Even the trip to the convenience store at night is not nearly as painful an 
affair . 


Let's leave it at that. Because of your endless support I am able to continue to write these stories. 
As I am writing these words down and looking back, it suddenly hits me that I have actually 
finished so many novels, and will have more to come. Needless to say, I am part surprised and 
part concerned. I wonder what everyone has to say about it after reading all of this? 

Thank you all once again, and please keep supporting me if you like my stories. 

With that, see you all. 


Tanigawa Nagaru 



Suzumiya Haruhi Volume Eight: The 

Indignation of Suzumiya Haruhi 

Cover Page 








Prologue Flap 



Editor in ChiefD Straight Ahead! 

Editor-in-Chief □ Straight Ahead! 


"Rejected." 

Haruhi said flatly, thrusting the manuscript back. 

"It's no goo~d?" 

Asahina-san raised her voice to a near-scream, 

"But I really, really thought about it " 

"Yup, no good. Totally. It doesn't strike any chords." 

Leaning back on the chiefs desk, Haruhi took the pen that had been on her ear into her hand and 
continued, 

"First, this introduction is too common. 'Long, long ago, in a certain place ' whatever; that's 

such a stale and ordinary way to start a story. Give it a little more twist. The beginning part 
should go for the catch, okay? First impressions are crucial." 

"But," 

Asahina-san nervously said, 

"I thought that was how fairy tales are " 

"That mindset is obsolete!" 

Haruhi handed out the rejection with a thoroughly self-important air. 

"The transformation of ideas is necessary. If you remember hearing this or that somewhere, think 
about the opposite first. Then you might just give birth to something new." 


This feeling like we were rapidly straying from the point was the result of Haruhi's thought 
system. It's not like the pick-off motion of a pitcher that let a fast runner get on first base, and I 
don't think it'll be good if you just do the opposite, either. 

"Anyway, this is rejected." 

After making it a point to write "retake" over the copy paper of the manuscript with a red pen, 
she lightly tossed it into a cardboard box beside her desk. Within the box that had been originally 
loaded with oranges now was a mountain of wastepaper she had decided to send to the 
incinerator. 

"Write something new." 

"Woo..." 



£3 

"Rejected. " 

With shoulders drooped, Asahina-san dejectedly returned to her seat. She was just too pitiable. 
The sight of her gripping her pencil, arms wrapped around her head, brings out burning 
compassion and sympathy. 

On a whim, my eyes shifted to the perfectly nondescript corner of the table, and there was, 
precious for this clubroom's scenery, the figure of Nagato-not-reading. 


Though it was Nagato keeping silently frozen as she stared at the notebook computer's display, 
touching the keyboard and entering something, freezing up again, and then hitting keys with a 
tap-tap. So, she's become an ornament again. 


What Nagato was using was a notebook computer we had taken from the Computer Club as a 
prize for a game competition. Incidentally, similar things were in front of Koizumi and me, and 



with nothing much to think about, the CPU cooling fan was already spinning noisily to cool its 
brain down. The sight of Koizumi's fingers moving rhythmically and the sounds as he punched 
keys annoyed me like hell. So he's settled on what he was going to write, isn't that nice. 

Although Asahina-san, who had shown such a silly prejudice against machines, had been writing 
on copy paper by herself, she now came to a complete stop as if she had synchronized with me. 

Ah yeah. Even though I have nothing to write, should I be typing something? 

"Okay, all of you as well!" 

Haruhi alone was abnormally cheerful. 

"Hurry up and hand in your manuscripts, if we don't start the editing, we won't make it in time 
for publication! Get into gear! You can write quickly if you just give it a little thought, can't you? 
Because you're not making an entry for a literary prize in long story writing or anything." 

From Haruhi's cheery face bloomed a self-confidence that had sprung from somewhere I didn't 
know, as usual. She seemed like she was going to strike her prey at any moment. 

"Kyon, you aren't moving your hands at all! Just glaring at the computer screen like that won't 
make your article ! Anyway, write something first, then print it and show it to me, and if I think 
it's amusing then it passes, and if I don't then it's rejected, okay?" 

My sympathy for Asahina-san transformed into self-pity. Why do I have to do such a thing? Not 
just me, but Asahina-san, who was moaning beside me, and even Koizumi, who was facing me 
while smiling; shouldn't the few of us be raising the signal to mutiny? 

Well, even though SOS Brigade Chief Suzumiya Haruhi's special characteristic was not listening 
to what you were saying, why was she willfully getting into a role like this? 

My eyes moved from Haruhi's itching-to-slap-people's-manuscripts-down-the-cardboard-box 
smile, to the armband on her arm. 

On the armband that was usually labeled Brigade Chief, and formerly Great Detective and Ultra- 
Director, a new title was written in big letters with a magic marker. 

This time, it was "Editor-in-Chief." 


The beginning goes back a few days. 



It was a day in the third school term, and the footsteps of the end of the year were gradually 
hitting my ears. I wish there could've been a little warning at least, but it had come out of 
nowhere on a lunch break that should've been peaceful. 

"Summons." 

The one who said that was Nagato Yuki. Beside her, for some reason, was Koizumi Itsuki's 
slender form. I've never even had a micron of a feeling that this pair would be coming side-by- 
side to my classroom, and although it was I who had taken a break from digging through my 
bento to come to the corridor, I just wanted to hurry up and return to my own desk. 

"What’s that about a summons?" 

I could only think of my current situation. After Taniguchi, who had just returned from buying 
and was carrying a variety of breads and a melon sour drink, said "Kyon, your companions are 
here," I went out and there were these two standing around. Though it was an unexpected 
pairing, I couldn't think of any partner that would be suitable for Nagato to be acting as a couple 
with. 

I took in the sight of the alien girl who had been expressionlessly standing there after stating that 
single mysterious word at the beginning, gave up after waiting for three seconds, and looked at 
Koizumi's handsome face. 

"Care to explain?" 

"Of course, that's what I came here for." 

Koizumi craned his neck into classroom five and inquired, 

"Suzumiya-san won't be returning anytime soon?" 

She had rushed out right after the fourth period ended. She should be munching away at a table 
in the cafeteria right about now. 

"That's convenient. I'd rather this doesn't reach her ears." 

I have a feeling that I wouldn't want this news to reach my ears as well. 

"That’s true." 

Koizumi's voice was lowered in a serious tone. In comparison, you seem like you're happy. 
"Well, it's up to the person whether or not it's something to be happy about." 


Hurry up and say it, already. 



"An official writ came down from the President of the Student Council. It's an order to appear at 
the Student Council room after school today. In short, it is a summons." 

Aha. 

I understood in an instant. 

"It finally came?" 

A summons from the President of the Student Council it's not that I didn't know my own 

place that I would think of asking "What for?" In this one year, the SOS Brigade has, regardless 
of whether it was inside the school or outside, raised up a storm, as I, being too much of a good 
person, feigned ignorance to its misdeeds. What do we have first? The case of the computers that 
were hauled from the Computer Club? No, that should've been settled by the game showdown at 
autumn last year. As I hear it, the President of the Computer Club had unconditionally 
withdrawn the complaint they had filed at the Student Council after their defeat. 

Was it because of that nonsensical film? That was done quite some time ago, and the Student 
Council must have had elections after the school festival. Did the current President remember the 
tasks that the previous President had left for him just now? Or could our personal descriptions 
have just recently arrived at North High from the neighboring shrines that we had rounded? We 
visited too many temples here and there for the start of the New Year. 

"There's no helping it." 

I shrugged, gazing at the absentee chiefs desk, the rearmost one by the windows. 

"Haruhi would be really happy to go off at the President. Depending on the other side's attitude, 
this just might turn into a brawl. As Koizumi is the mediator, I'll leave it up to you." 

"You are mistaken." 

Koizumi denied eloquently. 

"The one being summoned is not Suzumiya-san." 

So is it me? Come off it, that doesn't make any sense. Just because Haruhi has so much resiliency 
that it's like a spring made of whale whiskers, it would be at the height of injustice if I, still just 
hearing about it, had to bear the full brunt of it all. Though I know that the Student Council is 
just the school's radio-controlled puppet, I can't help but be disappointed that they'd go so far as 
acting like cowards. 

"No, it isn't you, either." 


Looking happy for some reason, Koizumi was getting increasingly invigorated as he said, 



The one being summoned, is Nagato-san alone. 


Say what? Isn't this just getting more and more absurd? Although she’d make a competent 
lecturee as she quietly listens to whatever you say, there won't be any sense of accomplishment 
since there's little doubt that she will just stick to her silence. 

"To Nagato? The Student Council President?" 

"Your object and subject are correct. That's right, the President has designated Nagato-san." 

Nagato's face showed no thoughts for herself as she stood there distantly. When she got hit by 
the beam of surprise that fired from my eyes, her bangs just gave a little sway. 

"What do you mean? What business could the President of the Student Council have with 
Nagato? It can't be that he wants to employ her as secretary of the Student Council?" 

"They already have a secretary, so that's wrong, of course." 

Just say it already. Do you speak in that arrogant way because the nature is carved into your 
DNA? 

"Forgive me. Now then, I shall tell you what I know. The reason why Nagato-san was 
summoned is simple. Aside from an interview about the Literature Club's activities, it is for 
discussing the question of the club's future continuation." 

"Literature Club? But what " 

I was about to ask what the relation was, but I caught on to his lines. 


Nagato was gazing at end of the corridor without moving. 

The white face that once wore glasses was as outwardly silent as that time. I still can't forget 
when she slowly raised her expressionless face in the clubroom where Haruhi had jumped into as 
she dragged me along. 

"I see, the Literature Club, huh. So that's how it is." 

This must be about how the SOS Brigade has been holding the Literature Club room as its 
headquarters for a while now. The only official member of the Literature Club has been Nagato 
from the beginning, while we were merely freeloaders, or some otherwise illegal occupants. 
Haruhi probably thinks that we had long ago acquired the rights to the place, but the Student 
Council will surely assert a different universal and standard opinion. 

Koizumi probably read my expression and said, 



"The memo was for the President to be able to have a talk personally after school. It came to me 
first. Then I passed it on to Nagato-san." 

Why did it go to you? 

"Because it would probably be ignored if it were addressed to Nagato, don't you think?" 

On the other hand, you have as little to do with Literature Club activities as me. 

"That may be, but it isn't as simple as you say. Things could get very difficult. Since we're not 
members and we've done nothing even closely related to literature in the Literature Club room, it 

wouldn't be surprising if it weren't just the Student Council that feels suspicious No, it's 

already become common knowledge, so I should say that it's been overlooked until now." 

Koizumi, who had spoken sensibly, wore a smile that made me wonder whose side he was on. 

They may be accusing me of being one of the leaders, but why has it come now? Like a lazy 
landlord who doesn't repair a leaky roof, hasn't the Student Council been leniently ignoring the 
SOS brigade as well? 

"The Student Council from before was like that. However, the current President seems to be 
more complicated." 

Koizumi smiled, showing his white teeth, and glanced at Nagato from the side. 

As expected, Nagato gave no reaction, and just moved her eyes from the end of the corridor and 
focused them on my feet. It somehow seemed like she was saying sorry for the trouble. 

And of course, Nagato has never given me any problems. It’s been decided. As far as I know, 
there is only one person who scatters trouble into the air whenever she moves. These messes 
have . 

I said, exhaling into the empty air. 

"Always been brought about by Haruhi." 

Since the day she had shouted that "This club room is our club room from now on!" 

"Please keep this a secret from Suzumiya-san." 

Koizumi said. 

"Because I think it will only make things worse. So after school, please go to the Student Council 
room so she doesn't find out." 


Yeah, I got it." I was about to say, before I barely caught on. 



"Wait a sec. Why do I have to be the one to go? I'm not a person that gets carried away so easily 
that I would thoughtlessly march over there even though I wasn't invited." 

Of course, if Nagato had wished for me to accompany her I would have been happy to go, but 
Koizumi has no business asking me. Besides, wouldn't the other party be terrified if Nagato came 
alone, I thought. 

"The other side is well informed. That's why I was appointed as the messenger. Though I could 
go on and act as Nagato-san's representative altogether, I'm worried that there might be some 
trouble later, as being an agent isn't part of my job. Well anyway, to put it simply, you are 
Suzumiya-san's representative." 

"Can't Haruhi go, herself?" 

"Do you really mean that?" 

Koizumi popped his eyes in an exaggerated manner. 

I snorted in response to his bad acting. If you say you understand it, then even I can understand 
it. If a bomb-girl like that is thrown at the Student Council, I don't think it will end with a simple 
explosion. Considering the concern she had shown for Nagato at the winter lodge, if she found 

out that a summons had come for Nagato from the Student Council she'd fly off just at the 

"for Nagato from the Student Council" part, she won't just smash the door as she charged to the 
Student Council room, she might even push ahead and attack the staff room or the principal's 
office by mistake. Though that might make her feel better, it will undoubtedly be me whose 
stomach is hurting later. Unlike Koizumi, I don't want to change schools without any personal 
reasons. 

"Well then, let's do our best." 

Koizumi had known my answer from the start, and let loose a smile as he said, 

"I'll tell the President. Let's meet at the President's room after school." 

Though he showed attitude while Haruhi was away, Koizumi lightly moved his long legs as he 
went away from classroom five. Afterwards, while watching Nagato walk away to follow him 
until I could no longer see her small figure, I really felt that the end of our one year had begun. 

Whatever has been said, perhaps Koizumi and Nagato were completely content with the SOS 
Brigade's reputation. While acting as a group, the number of things we were keeping from 
Haruhi was increasing on a monthly basis 

No need to get sentimental. 

Thanks to that, I didn't get to ask Koizumi why he was going on normally as the Student Council 
President's carrier pigeon. 



By the way, with Haruhi's superb perception, she had noticed my suspicious 
behavior though she was totally unaware by the break after the fifth period. 

A sharp object had been insistently poking my back, and when I turned to look at the seat behind 
me, 

"What are you being so restless about?" 

Haruhi said as she twirled a mechanical pencil in her fingertips, 

"You look like you've been called out by someone." 

For such a time, I had planned something that one-hundred-percent cannot be found false. 

"Yeah, Okabe asked me to see him. He specifically told me to come during the lunch break." 

I answered with a nonchalant look. 

"It seems to be a request to talk about my grades. Depending on the results of my end of term 
exams, they may even arrange to notify my parents. About how I should reform myself right now 
if I'm thinking about going on to university or something." 

Though I don't have enough heart and all that to reform myself, and I cannot change what isn't 
there, what I say isn't always utter nonsense. Taniguchi had said something that sounded roughly 
the same but with different words, and the conclusion I got from the information sharing was that 
our homeroom teacher was worried about one of his students' future and that he was a teacher for 
whom a fraction of sympathy was enough. 

But then, because I'm near someone like Taniguchi, who's so easygoing that even I just go along 
thinking it's okay, the feeling of tension is diluted. I sometimes think that Kunikida maintaining 
decent grades was stranger. 

"Eh?" 

While Haruhi propped her elbows on her desk and rested her chin in her hands, 

"It's suspicious that you would get such grades. And I thought you were listening in class as 
diligently as me." 


She said, and gazed outside the window. The briskness of the streaming clouds showed the 
strength of the wind. 



I don't want to be lumped in with your brain. The occupant of my head has nothing to do with 
space-time distortions, information explosions, or that damned grey space. Compared to Haruhi's 
unprecedented variety, it is about as cute as a miniature dachshund. 

"Listening without understanding is nothing but a waste of time." 

I said instead. Though I said it without any confidence. 

"Hmm?" 

With Haruhi's eyes still fixed on the scenery outside, she said to the windowpane, 

"If you like, I could help you with your studies. I won't mind, we'd just be repeating the lessons 
anyway, and if it's World Leaders, I'm confident that you'll get more from my teaching method 
than class." 

"They suck, those people," Haruhi muttered to herself, then gave me a glance before quickly 
looking away. 

While I thought about how I should answer, 



Haruhi muttered to herself, then gave me a glance before quickly looking away. 

"Also, Mikuru-chan has been flapping about, too, hasn't she? This school, although it's 
prefectural and gives a strange impression, acts like a college preparatory school, so this season 
is hard on the second years as well. They're real busy with special classes, trial exams, and all 
that. And the school trip was nothing but a complete disaster. If that was the case, they should 
just have the trip sometime within the year. They'll just have to have the school festival in spring 
instead of autumn. Don't you think?" 


She spoke briskly, then appeared to be watching the streaming clouds again. It seemed like she 
was waiting for my answer, so I said, 


Yeah. 


I went along and watched the clouds as well. 

"I just want to go on to the next year safely." 

If, by chance, I do get held back a year, 

"Hiya, Suzumiya-senpai." 

"Ah, stupid Kyon, go buy me a sanshoku bread. I'll pay you later." 

Resentfully, it ended up like one of our ordinary clubroom conversations. I can avoid the penalty 
if I could make Haruhi prepare a question guide for the term exams. Wait, it would also be good 
to add Nagato to the manufacturing staff. I believe we can sell the end-product at five hundred 
yen per copy. We could make a small fortune. My fellow failure Taniguchi can buy one with a 
thirty percent special service discount. 

"That won't do." 

Haruhi dismissed my profitable proposal. 

"You won't really learn anything that way. That's just a short-term thing. You'd go all panicky if 
the questions were just a little off. If you don't build up your knowledge by getting a perfect 
understanding of things, you'll just end up being tricked by some bad folks. Well, relax. If you 
seriously keep at it for half a year, even you can be in Kunikida's level." 

You don't need to be that fired up about it. An image comes to mind of Haruhi all-too happily 
letting me have it with a "Wrong! Why can't you understand such a simple thing? Stupid, stupid, 
stupid!" through a megaphone every time I bring up an answer that I've figured out as I sweated 
nervously, and while I was telling myself not to picture such a scene, 

"Just ask me about the things you don't understand and I'll teach you. The rest will take care of 
itself, somehow." 

"If it'll just happen somehow, then why hasn't it happened already?" 

Did I just say such an irritating thing out loud? Yes, I sure did. 

"Why do you have to be so stubborn?" 

Haruhi turned to the front with lips that seemed like they were about to explode, and boldly 
thrust her chest forward. 

"Because I won't allow a scandal such as a dropout coming from my SOS Brigade to happen. If it 
does, the Student Council or whatever might go 'Oh, look at this!' and come forward with a 



complaint. That's why, so you don't miss this chance, you must motivate yourself even just a 
little. Got it?" 


After spitting out such unusually sharp lines with a dexterous expression of frowned eyebrows 
and a smiling mouth, Haruhi kept scowling at me and frowned until I expressed agreement with 
her demand. 


The end of the school day had come. 

Having left the classroom, I acted like I was heading off to the staff room and parted with 
Haruhi, then went directly to the Student Council room. Since it was right beside the staff room, 
there would be no need to make a detour to hide my destination, and I should arrive without any 
problems. 

Even so, when it comes down to it, some feeling of tension was still coursing through my body. 

I had no idea what sort of face the Student Council President had, even though I had seen him 
somewhat during the Student Council elections after the school festival. Now that I think about 
it, though I remember hearing every candidate's speech in the auditorium, as a perfectly non- 
affiliated voter, I wrote down the most ordinary name on the ballot, and promptly forgot about it. 
Just what kind of guy became president? In any event, I'm sure it's a sophomore, since someone 
you call President is probably a higher year student. Someone with more dignity than the 
Computer Club's President, I'd think. 

While I was hesitating in front of the Student Council for a moment, 

"Oh, Kyon-kun! Whacha doing?" 

Coming out of the staff room, a long-haired lady had bumped into me. It was Asahina-san's 
classmate and honorary consultant of the SOS Brigade, which made it subsequently clear that 
she was no ordinary second year girl. 

Even if she has to raise her head to somebody, this person would still make him fall. 

"Hiya." 

At my varsity group-level enthusiastic greeting, she went, 


A-haha! Hiee! 



Tsuruya-san raised a hand with a hyper-looking smile, and fixed her eyes on the door I was 
standing next to, 

"What have we here! You have some business with the Student Council?" 

I went to this place just to hear what this business is. That doesn't mean I have something to do at 
the Student Council. 

"E-heh?" 

Tsuruya-san, who approached in that vigorous way of walking that closely resembled Haruhi's, 
drew her mouth close to my ear as I teetered backwards. She then said in voice that was quiet for 
her, 

"Hmm? By any chance, are you spying on the Student Council?" 

Tsuruya-san's face was in point-blank range, like some serious spies were listening in. This 
person, who is unforgettable for her cheerful giggles no matter what was happening, wore an 
expression that I could not recognize on her. For some reason or other, I felt that it was necessary 
to give an explanation. 

"Umm, well, you see " 

What can I say, Tsuruya-san. If I were a spy following somebody's secret order, I shouldn't be 
getting into such trouble right now. 

"That's true." 

Tsuruya-san stuck out her tongue, 

"Yeah, sorry for being suspicious. I just happened to hear some things. There are rumors of 
mysterious people creeping around the dark side of the Student Council, working in the shadows, 
didn't you know? It also seems like many things happened after the presidential election before. 
Sounds like a bunch of lies, don't you think?" 

First time I’ve heard of it. It's hard to imagine that a shabby prefectural high school’s elections 
for President of the Student Council would have such things happening behind the scenes, so it's 
all probably a false rumor. Though Haruhi would love it if there really were such a conspiracy 
story on our campus. 

"Tsuruya-san." 

It was my turn to ask her. There were things I didn't know that were probably already well- 
known to her. 


Do you know what kind of person the President is? 



Though I had wished she could tell me something about the guy, 

"I don't know much, myself. We're not in the same class. He's an arrogant but good guy, and he 
seems to have a pretty sharp head on his shoulders. If you talk about the Romance of the Three 
Kingdoms, he gives an impression similar to Shiba Yi. It looks like the slogan he proclaimed was 
for the improvement of student independence. The previous Student Council had just seemed 
like hishimochi- in-the-sky." 

It bothered me that I couldn't immediately picture his real character even with the comparison to 
a famous historical figure, and I was suspicious about whether her /noc/n'-metaphor was accurate 
or not. 

"Anyway, why were you at the staff room, Tsuruya-san?" 

"Hm? I'm on day-duty today. I came here to deliver the daily reports." 

After answering casually, Tsuruya-san patted me on the shoulder and said in a big voice, 

"Kyon-kun, keep up the good work! If you get into a fight with the Student Council, I'll give you 
a hand! And Haru-nyan and the others are all on your side, of course!" 

That's really encouraging. However, I don't want it to go that far. I wonder what kinds of tricks 
Haruhi, who'd be ecstatic at discovering a formidable enemy, will employ; just thinking about it 
is wearing out my brain. I already feel like thinking of something else. 

"Laters", Tsuruya-san waved, having finished saying all that she had wanted to say, and departed 
briskly. 

Like always, this person gets to the point even without saying anything. She is a match for 
Haruhi when it comes to the power of conceptualization. She's probably the only student in 
North High who could form a combination with Haruhi and show comparable power. Where she 
differs from our troublesome brigade chief is that she hasn't completely left behind all common 
sense. 

However, judging from the thinness of the wall and the door, I can't help but think that Tsuruya- 
san's last shout must've passed right on through to the inside. Haruhi-like behavior must be lying 
dormant within her somewhere. 

Well, I can't just go changing my mind now. 

To avoid any adverse effects, I knocked politely first. 


You may enter. 



The voice resounded abruptly from inside. You may enter; so there really people who speak like 
that among the high school students. And it was such a cool voice that it could be used to dub a 
veteran actor in a foreign movie. 

I opened the sliding door, and my body was plunged into the Student Council room for the first 
time in my life. 

Although the Student Council room boasts a somewhat wider area than the Literature Club room, 
it wasn't very different from any other clu broom in the old shack. Without an exclusive desk 
where a triangular pyramid with something like "President" written on it was placed, it looked 
bare compared to our clubroom. It would be simpler to just call it a meeting room. 

Koizumi, who had arrived before me, gave me a greeting, 

"Thank you. It's good that you could come." 

Standing by the entrance, and lined up with Koizumi like she was also waiting for me, was 
Nagato. 


Nagato sagely darted her eyes to the windows, and before them was the President. 

The President huh. 

He was a tall student, I realized. He was looking outside the windows for some reason, and he 
was unmoving as he held his hands together at his back. The setting sun coming in from the 
south-facing window served as backlighting, making his form ambiguous. 

There was another person; this one a shadow sitting in a corner of the long table. It was a female 
student, her face hidden as she opened a notebook, looking like she was getting ready to take 
down the minutes with the mechanical pencil in her hand. It seems like this person is the 
secretary. 

The President still hasn't moved much. What could be so interesting about the scenery outside; 
the tennis court and the empty pool shouldn't be visible, but the profound silence stretched on. 

"Mister President." 

After a moderate pause, Koizumi called out in his much-too exhilarated voice. 

"All the people you have invited are now gathered here. Please proceed with your business." 


Very well. 



The President turned around slowly, and I was finally able to assess his face. He was an 
exceptionally slender, glasses-wearing second year student. Though it was in a different way 
from Koizumi's budget-idol face, he was a pretty handsome bastard. It seemed like all of his 
thoughts were focused on a desire for improvement; there was a cold-blooded look in his eyes 
that made one think of a young career person, and I reflexively thought that he was not here to 
make any friends. 

Expressionless, though in a different way from Nagato, he continued, 

"Though I think you may already have heard from Koizumi, I will say it once more. I wanted 
you all to come here. Regarding the Literature Club's activities, the Student Council is giving its 
final notice." 

Final, how? Has there ever been any sort of notice until this moment? Even if there were, it 
seems Nagato hasn't been complying meekly to your invitations, which is the reason we were 
able to make the clubroom our home base. 


Nagato was without any reaction or concern as the President coldly spoke. 

"Currently, you have been reduced to being a Literature Club in name only. Do you agree?" 
She's no good except for reading quietly in the clubroom, as I thought. 


Nagato was silent. 

"You are already at a level of not even functioning as a club." 


Nagato looked mutedly at the President. 

"I will state it clearly. We, the Student Council, cannot see any reason for the current Literature 
Club's existence. These are the findings of our continuous all-aspect investigation." 


Nagato was keeping still. 

"Therefore, we are announcing the indefinite suspension of the Literature Club. You are to 
promptly vacate your clubroom." 



Nagato was quiet all the same. Though I knew why. 

"You are Nagato-kun, huh." 

As the President coolly caught the unyielding Nagato's eyes, 

"You leave non-members in your clubroom, and neglect your duties by doing nothing about it. 
Besides that, what have you been doing with the Literature Club's allotted activity budget this 
year? Are you saying that the filming of that movie was an activity of the Literature Club? 
According to our investigation, the credits for that movie in question said that it was produced by 
an illegal group, the SOS Brigade; there was no mention of the Literature Club's name anywhere. 
And generally speaking, the film itself was made without the permission of the school festival's 
executive committee." 

It pains me to hear you say that. Koizumi and Nagato may have willed it to stop right from the 
start, but ending Haruhi's tyranny was my sworn duty. All for the sake of Asahina-san, who had 
been made the heroine by force. 


You couldn't tell what Nagato was thinking to herself from her profile. Though that's just an 
amateur's observation. 

Either the President is misunderstanding her non-reaction as a sign of obedience, or he is just not 
shaking off his arrogant manner. 

"Tentatively, as a step in the Literature Club's suspension, you will be prohibited from entering 
the clubroom until new members join in the next school year. Are there any objections? If you 
do, you should speak up. I'm all ears." 


Though not even a hair on Nagato was moving, if it were Haruhi, Asahina-san, and Koizumi, 
they might've understood. And, if my colleagues could understand it, then it would already be 
obvious even to me. I know that much from the atmosphere. 


Nagato, who had sunk into silence, 


She seemed to be quietly angry. 


Hm. No objections, then? 



The President moved the tips of his lips in disgust. Though there was no change in his cool 
expression itself, 


"In the Literature Club, Nagato-kun, there are no members other than you. You are the de facto 
head. If you would consent, for the preservation of the clubroom we will start the immediate 
removal of all foreign objects by taking out all items unrelated to club activities and disposing of 
them, or having them stored here. Retrieve the personal effects that you have left there at once." 

"Wait a sec." 

I interrupted the President's one-sided declaration. Before Nagato's silent anger reaches the 
critical point, 

"Saying that all of a sudden is too much. Neglecting us until now, and then springing this on us 
without any warning isn't fair." 

"You, of all people, should say that." 

The President poured a cold look on me, going "Heh" with his lips in an annoying smile. 

"I had the club establishment application you've submitted shown to me. It was so bad, it was 
funny. If we approved every association that gave such random details, this school would see no 
end of it." 

That despicable, smart-ass upper classman pushed up his glasses in a dramatic gesture, 

"You should study your words some more. You, especially, should be working on your studies in 
general. I don't think your grades are good enough that you can play around after school doing 
nothing." 

Just as I thought. The President has been planning to scrap the SOS Brigade from the beginning. 
That stuff about the Literature Club was a simple ruse. At least Haruhi the ultra-director wrote 
Nagato into a scenario that was somewhat excusable. 

"Saying that you will join the Literature Club is useless now." 

The President said, forestalling me even though I haven't even thought of it. 

"Look. For argument's sake, even if you could pass the year as official Literature Club members, 
you couldn't do even one thing that can be recognized as a Literature Club activity. Just what 
would you do?" 

The President's glasses were flashing for no reason. Are those special effects? 

"We may have appeared tolerant. You were talking about the SOS Brigade? It was formed 
without authorization, and utterly does whatever it pleases. Not only did you light fireworks on 



the rooftop, you threatened teachers, loitered on campus in lascivious clothing, inexcusably 
cooked Nabe within a fire-prohibited building, and just been a big problem otherwise. Just who 
do you think you people are?" 

I knew that what he was saying was generally correct. It was certainly bad. But I think they still 
should've conferred with us to get a single word in at least. I don't think they'd approve no matter 
what I would have answered, but I just can't go with whatever they say. 

"You have a dirty mouth." 

I was taking Nagato's fury for my own, 

"If that's how it is, then you should have called out Haruhi and talked to her directly. Why'd you 
summon Nagato if you were just going to shut down the Literature Club?" 

However, my counterattack seemed to have finished earlier than I had estimated. 

"Of course." 

The President was not shaken at all. Rearranging his arms to look cool, with an expression like 
that of an elite section chief who had just finished reading a written review plan submitted by a 
blundering subordinate, he continued, 

"Because there is no such thing as an SOS Brigade within this school. Am I mistaken?" 


Has it really come to this, I thought. 

No matter how much the Student Council or the executive office had persisted, they couldn't take 
down the SOS Brigade. Because, on paper, such a brigade could not exist in this school. That's 
about as true as saying that losing more of what you don't have is like how anything multiplied 
by zero becomes zero. Fumble around and it won't be limited to just not getting the result of 
multiplying a negative by a negative; if you poke the girl called Suzumiya Haruhi the wrong 
way, you won't know where she'd fly off to. 

Like aiming at a split with a hooking ball and crushing the ten pins in the neighboring lane, her 
personality was unreadable. 

Even if you attack her with a straight ball, she's just going to smash a high-speed foul into your 
team's dugout; doing so is just useless, and as for the Student Council and their conclusions, they 
were probably filling up a moat when they had drawn up that plan first. 



Specifically, that the SOS Brigade has been illegally residing in the clubroom section on the third 
floor of the Old Shack, which was the Literature Club's clubroom. 

If the Literature Club is forfeited and gets downgraded, the SOS Brigade's site will automatically 
disappear as well. We could only stay there regularly because Nagato, the one-and-only 
Literature Club member, had said "Okay," though perhaps no human being other than Nagato 
would've replied so when asked to "Lend me your clubroom." 

If the Literature Club is terminated, as it is, Nagato would no longer be a Literature Club 
member, and the room where she could quietly read books everyday would disappear, and the 
five of us would lose the place where we could gather together after school. 

What an excellent strategy. I would commend it. The bad thing is, because of what we had done, 
Nagato gets the roles of both the victim who gets the short end of the stick, as well as a co- 
conspirator. 

What's difficult with the situation on this side is that even I know that a counter-argument cannot 
be constructed; at the very least, the one to wave that flag would be Haruhi, and though I have to 
question whether the President realizes it, it's perfectly clear that a Nagato-call was folded 
within. 

So Nagato must be reaching her limit as well. 


The silent pressure building up within this petite figure in a sailor uniform was well known to 
me. Just what would happen if she were to release all that. Although the world would by no 
means be reconstructed, perhaps she could fly off with the President's memory and turn him into 
a puppet. Or perhaps, like Asakura, she could manipulate data and change this clubroom and the 
President along with it into something different. The memory of how Nagato Yuki went wild, 
during that game war versus the Computer Club last fall, came back to me forcefully. 

As the Student Council President moved away and posed with his back to the setting sun, I was 
nervously wondering whether I should tell him what it really was, 


And while the invisible, pregnant atmosphere kept silent, it disappeared. 

"Hm?" 

The crystalline aura (at least it felt like it) that was emanating from Nagato was disappearing like 
a lie. By chance, when I had looked at Nagato's face, her unblinking gaze was directed at 
someone other than the President. 


I turned to look as well. 




£3 

Kimidori-san gave a gentle smile, and her eyes met mine before she swung them over to Nagato. 

The female student, who was looking down at the meeting minutes as she moved her pen, and 
whom I had guessed was a second year girl acting as the secretary, slowly lifted her face. 

" Eh?" 

That stupid sounding voice was mine. 

Why was this person here? Her name didn't immediately come back to me ah, I remembered. 

It was summer. There was a strange incident a short while after the end of Tanabata. And then, 
though I had not forgotten what I had seen, I'd rather say that with that meaningless incident 

"Is anything the matter?" 

The President said in a voice that was all business, 

"Ah, I haven't introduced you. She is my Student Council's top executive, and is acting as our 
secretary " 

The female student's hair moved lightly as she took a silent bow. 

"This is Kimidori Emiri-kun." 

The giant kamadouma came back to my mind with thunderous sound effects. 

"Kimidori-san?" 

Starting from the SOS Brigade website's abnormality, a problem consultation about the 
Computer Club President going AWOL led us to an alternate space, and though she was one of 
the people caught up in those debilitating events within that chain of stupidity, she was 
pretending not to recognize us at all as she set herself in a corner of the Student Council. 



Kimidori-san gave a gentle smile, and her eyes met mine before she swung them over to Nagato. 
Their eyes appeared to thin a little. Adding to that, it seemed like they were even giving each 
other looks. And even more, it looked like Nagato gave a small, reluctant nod. 

What? Was there some kind of telepathy going on between these two? 

Now that I think about it, that incident was even stranger than I had considered. Though she had 
said she was the Computer Club President's girlfriend, I later learned from the guy himself that 
he didn't have one. Well, although Kimidori-san had come to the SOS Brigade for a consultation 
for some reason, I felt certain that Nagato had known. However, for them to stare each other 
down after happening to meet in this place, I can't think that this was just a coincidence. 

Like a Partisan Boy Soldier hearing the sounds of Stuka Dive Bombers flying in formation, I was 
struck by a scare, 

Bang! 

A sound like a balloon bomb exploding boomed from the back. My heart smashed against a rib 
and almost leapt out of my chest as I was completely left in the lurch, 

"Hold it right there!" 

Raising a battle cry as she swung the Student Council room door wide open, there was no 
mistaking the master as she released a voice that easily exceeded 100 decibels. The voice that 
made rippling vibrations on my eardrums kept going on. 

"You quack of a Student Council President! What do you think you're doing, shutting away three 
of my loyal servants in such a place ! I would've found out sooner or later, but if it was something 
so interesting, you should have told me first! And what did you do? You couldn't have been 
bullying Yuki, could you? It'd be okay if it were just Kyon, but if it's Yuki, I totally won't allow 
it! I'll beat you senseless and toss you from the window to the pool!" 

Jumping in with a threatening poise like a mama cat that had picked up her kitten, ah, only one 
person fits the profile. 

Although there was no need to turn around, I looked back to see the expression on that person's 
face. I knew it. It was my violent and lively classmate, whose whole body was radiating a 
happiness that just screamed, "I've found something interesting!" 

"You can't hope to keep me out of this. I am the supreme leader of the SOS Brigade, after all!" 

As Haruhi banged out her with her big mouth, she spotted the last boss in an instant. The huge 
pupils which seemed to be crammed with whole clusters of galaxies locked onto the lanky figure 
holding down his glasses. 



"Are you the Student Council President? Alright, I'll take you on, head-to-head! It's the Chief 
versus the President, so the purse should be equivalent. You got nothing against that, right!?" 

How did you know we were here? As I was about to state this naive question, 

"Hey, Kyon! Shouldn't you be doing something instead of just standing there, watching quietly? 
Don't hold back just because it's the Student Council President. If we all jump him and tie him 
up, that should be it. I'll put him in a lock, so you get the rope ready!" 

Those eyes were going to burst with lava and flare up to make a caldera any time now. In 
contrast to this, 


Nagato did not move an inch, like a frontline commander ignoring the arrival of reinforcements 
she had not asked for, and kept staring at Kimidori-san like a dormant volcano. However, instead 
of jumping the Student Council President or going off to search for some rope, I spied the 
expression on the person who was exposed to this intruder's threat. 

It was a strange sign. The President's brows were knotted, and he was turned toward somewhere 
beside me with accusing eyes. It was at Koizumi, and for some reason, he seemed to shake his 
head a little. He had a bitter smile on his lips, and it seemed to me like these two had just 
completed some wordless communication; let's just forget I ever noticed anything. 

"And what was that! If you're going to summon somebody, I should be the first priority! You 
people may be the Student Council and all that, but how could you leave me, the Chief, out!?" 

"Please calm down, Suzumiya-san." 

Koizumi nonchalantly placed his hand on Haruhi's shoulder, 

"Let's hear the Student Council's side first. We were still in the middle of our discussion." 

He suspiciously tried to meet my eyes. Damn you, just what do you want me to do? 

The one thing I do know, is that our Excellency, Chief Haruhi, had gallantly come running for us 
in our predicament, 

"Now that it's come to this, I'm declaring total war! Because, for your information, we take on 
any challenge from anyone, anytime, anywhere! The SOS Brigade is made up of nothing but 
women (and men) of valor, who are invincible and know no mercy or fear. Even if you cry or 
kneel on the ground, we will not forgive you ! " 


It seems like she's just making the situation more complicated. 



Tsuruya-san, who had declared she would participate in the war in advance, Nagato, who was 
right at the verge of rage, and, as a bonus, Kimidori-san, who had made her unexpected return 
here; this much would've been complicated enough. 

Incidentally, even Koizumi and the President were part of the picture for some reason. 

"And Kyon, just what do you think you're doing? Only Student Council Presidents should take 
on Student Council Presidents. It should be the easiest thing to realize that he's not our enemy 
character. Don't do battle here; take the fight somewhere else. Just glare at him with a more 
resolute attitude ! " 

The Student Council versus the SOS Brigade, huh 

If only someone, somewhere would step on the switch for this event that I'd rather avoid. By no 
means do I want to think I have to be the one. 

While looking at Haruhi, who, for some reason, seemed to be as delighted as she was angry, I 
had to consider if I should just go with the flow from here, though, in any case, the conviction 
swirling around in my chest wasn't that much. 

"Ah, well." 

Is, well, something natural to be murmuring, I'd like to think. 

And in fact, they've just let out some not-so-good thing. 

Haruhi, whose job had changed from Brigade Chief to Editor-in-Chief, was commissioned to 
turn us brigade members into instant authors and compose some quasi-novels, which is a 
situation as unprecedented as the Jupiter Ghost being completely targeted by Stinger anti-aircraft 
missiles. 




IP 

The Student Council versus the SOS Brigade , huh... 

Haruhi, like a short-fused street fighter who had come to the battle grounds after coming across a 
letter of challenge that had been sent to someone else, 

"Come now, you corrupt President! Attack me any way you want! No referee stoppage so no 
holding back, and we'll be going with the nashi-nashi rule with no rope break, got it!?" 

Spouting off in an overbearing voice as he stood by the window, the Student Council President 
thrust out a finger with a snap. 

At the same time, the President, without hiding the annoyance on his face, said, 

"Suzumiya-kun. Though I do not know what sort of hand-to-hand combat you practice in your 
spare time, I have no intention of helplessly entering a battlefield that the opponent had prepared. 
The rules you talk of are at the pinnacle of barbarism. Repulsive. And most of all, for the Student 
Council, fights within the school are impermissible for any reason. Do remember this." 

Haruhi, without looking away from the President, 

"Well then, what contest do you feel like? Wanna play Mahjong ? Even if you bring out your ace 
pinch-hitter, it won't matter against me. How about a computer game competition? It's an offer 
you can't refuse." 

"There will be no Mahjong , and no games." 


As the President elaborately took off his glasses and wiped them with his handkerchief, before 
putting them on again, 


"I had no intention of holding a contest, or such, from the start. Do you think we have as much 
free time as you do to go playing around?" 

As Haruhi lifted her foot to valiantly charge forward, I stopped her by grabbing on to her 
shoulder. 

"Wait a sec, Haruhi. Who told you we were here?" 

I asked, and she turned to me with a glint in her eye that exposed her fighting spirit. 

"I heard it from Mikuru-chan. And Mikuru-chan said she heard it from Tsuruya-san. When I 
heard that it seemed like you were called by the Student Council President for something, it 
struck me. Yuki and Koizumi-kun weren't in the club room as well. Huh-hmm, I immediately 
knew that the Student Council had moved at last. Since he knew that he'd lose to me for sure, he 
thought of attacking a weak spot. It was obvious he would use such a cowardly, small-time 
scoundrel move." 

The President was unperturbed even when he was called a small-time scoundrel. The tall figure 
of the sophomore gazed in annoyance at Haruhi, before he once again looked at Koizumi with a 
complaint in his eyes, 

"Koizumi-kun. Would you please explain it to them. The reason why I had invited Nagato-kun." 
"By your leave, Mister President." 

Though Koizumi, the carefree-smiling lover of exposition, had opened his mouth in order to 
enlighten us, 

"There's no need to explain anything." 

Haruhi swiftly refused. 

"After all, you've probably just served us false charges in order to destroy the Literature Club. If 
Yuki is no longer a club member, then we wouldn't be able to use the club room, right? You 
thought that since Yuki was an obedient, goody-goody girl, you could simply wheedle her out, 
but that won't do with me. If the SOS Brigade is such an eyesore for you, you should've just 
come and said it to us up front, not that sneaky manoeuvring from the side!" 

Haruhi got excited by her own line. At any rate, her intuition was as expected. Under these 
circumstances, if you think that Koizumi would be disappointed that he wasn't able to explain 
away, 

"I thank you for minimizing the time needed to explain. It is as you have said." 


Koizumi didn't lose his smile as he feigned relief, 



"However, we were still in the middle of our talk. Perhaps the President has more to say. Any 
way you look at it, forcing the Literature Club, an officially recognized club, to suspend its 
activities with no grace period at all is unreasonable. Although I don't think the Student Council 
has that much authority, what is it that you are proposing, Mister President?" 

He finally explained it. Seeing that he was feeling the mood to watch such a transparently cheap 
play, the President acted more and more like an honor student. 

"Of course, we in the Student Council do not want such a useless disturbance to occur. If the 
Literature Club had held activities fitting for the Literature Club, there wouldn't have been one 
complaint in the first place. What we see as a problem, is that there has not even been one such 
activity." 

"Do you mean that we could alternatively change our club activities instead of the forced 
suspension?" Koizumi responded at once. 

"It is not an alternative, it is a requirement." 

The President, in a troublesome manner, 

"Even if it's just once, you must hold an activity befitting the Literature Club. If you do that, then 
the indefinite suspension of club activities will be temporarily frozen. We will even allow your 
continuance in the clubroom." 

Haruhi put down the leg that she had been raising. However, with a face and voice that remained 
combative, 

"It's good that you understand things. While you're at it, aren't you going to recognize the SOS 
Brigade? Just go straight to making us a club and we'll act like a study group. And then you can 
make allocations for our club expenses, can't you?" 

That was written in the student handbook. But the President, who could grant a two-rank special 
promotion to the brigade and it still wouldn't be a club, without losing his sharpness, 

"I know of no such brigade. There's no way I can authorize the club activities of a brigade which 
officially does not exist, nor can I make more allocations from our meager budget." 

The President, who was slowly putting his arms together, met Haruhi's scowl directly. To prove 
that he was not bluffing, the President didn't sweat one drop. Just where was this composure 
coming from? 

"I don't want to hear anything more about any brigades in front of me. The topic right now is the 
Literature Club. I have no interest in finding out what sort of brigade you all had formed without 
permission. Even though I don't know about it, if it reaches my ears, it will only become a 
problem for the Literature Club. More than that, you can just go on without giving me any 
discomfort." 



Though it would've been good if we had just gone away, no matter what kind of sleight of hand I 
use, it would just be a matter of time before Haruhi assaulted the Student Council room. No 
doubt she'd leap into action before the day is over. And I'm certain she'd be dragging me by my 
necktie as she went. 

"But of course, not everything can be called a Literature Club activity. Holding a reading circle 

in the clubroom, writing book reports on the chosen book for the day copying grade 

schoolers won't make the cut. I, at least, wouldn’t allow it." 

"So what would you do?" 

The glint in Haruhi's eyes didn't fade as she inclined her head a little. 

"Kyon, aside from reading books, what does the Literature Club do around here? Any ideas?" 
"Not one." 

What I said had come from deep within my heart. You should ask something like that from 
Nagato. 

"There is only one requirement." 

The President said, ignoring our conversation. 

"You have to publish an organ. According to our records, even though the past generations of the 
Literature Club were always stricken by a shortage of members, they were still able to issue one 
volume every year. This activity is most likely to give you exposure. The Literature Club, self- 
explanatorily, is a club that infuses art into the creation of sentences. You don't get a story from 
just reading." 

So that means Nagato hasn't been doing what a club member is supposed to at all for the last 
year. She’s done nothing but read since whenever Oh that Nagato. 

My head shook involuntarily. I did not want to remember that bespectacled Literature Club 
member who wore a troubled face in front of an outdated computer at a time like this. Seeing her 
in my dreams at night is enough. 

"I disapprove." 

Seeming to misunderstand my behavior, the President wore an even more disapproving face, 
himself. 

"Do not forget that this is the minimal concession. By all rights, we could have announced this 
plan during the Culture Festival. I want you to feel a little obligation to me for waiting so long. 
Then again, if it were anyone other than me, you would probably go on free interminably." 



Setting myself and Nagato aside, only Haruhi would want to go on free. 


"I cannot let that happen. I won the election for President of the Student Council by pledging for 
school reformation. As you have known, the Student Council then was just the Student Council 
in name, and there was no room for student independence. Following the plans that had been 
drawn up in the staff room, I made serious on what I had said like a body of air." 

The President delivered such a rousing speech indifferently. 

"I wished to break away from that situation. Students wanting more items to be added to the 
cafeteria menu while getting better value for their purchases; even such trivial matters have to be 
discussed, and I thought that by negotiating on the side of the school, the way to realization 
would follow." 

Though I’m grateful that he's working so hard for the sake of the students, how about listening to 
a single student's wish to be recognized as a "Club - or □ Study Group □ instead of a 
□ Brigade □? 

"I am making serious reformation my slogan. If I formally approve such an unserious brigade, 
my reputation would crash to the earth. I will not accept it." 

The President, after rejecting my request, 

"The term is one week. One week after today, you must finish publishing two hundred copies of 
the Literature Club magazine. Otherwise, I will recommend that the Literature Club be 
suspended, and you must surrender the clubroom. No complaints will be considered." 

Anyway, about that journal. Is it something like an anthology? 

"Fine, then." 

Haruhi accepted simply. Nagato should be the one saying that, not you. 

Nagato would speak nothing, of course, but even if it might’ve been better for Haruhi to respond 
since there was nothing more to say, I feel that Nagato's silence here was different from her 
usual, taciturn disposition. 


Nagato had been staring at Kimidori-san the whole time, and they both did not turn their eyes 
away at all. Nagato was expressionless, and Kimidori-san had on a weak smile. 

Looking happy for some reason I didn't understand, Haruhi didn't seem to recognize Kimidori- 
san, the SOS Brigade's first and only client, at all. It seems like she's been so busy glaring at the 
President, that her thoughts hadn't even turned to the secretary. Maybe she doesn't remember her 
face. She never saw that kamadouma. 



Haruhi, with a face like a mathematician that had just proven a proposition, 


"A journal, a club journal, huh? Is it something like a doujinshil People writing stories, essays, 
columns, poems, and stuff?" 

"The contents are not of my concern," the President said. "You may use the printing room as you 
wish. You may write whatever you wish. However, there is a second part to the requirements. 

We will establish a time table for the production of the journal, and you must follow it. And 
though it should go without saying that distribution will be free, you must follow this as well. 
Promotional activities and personal deliveries are not allowed. That includes going out as bunny 
girls, among other things. Not one person should stubbornly neglect this, because if all copies are 
not out within three days, a penalty will be imposed." 

"What kind of penalty?" 

Haruhi, who was a sucker for penalty games, leaned forward with glittering eyes. 

The President, in an annoying manner, 

“When that time comes, we will inform you. But you will want to be prepared. We can start with 
performing volunteer activities, indefinitely. As I have repeatedly said, this is a concession." 

The arbitrary destruction of a home giving way to conflict would be unfortunate, the President 
seemed to be thinking. Even if you haven't read the history of the Akou clan, it's easy for anyone 
to guess. Furthermore, the opponent was Haruhi. I can't think that the President is pleased with 
himself even in his own head. The pitiful school itself would run away. 

Although I'm leaving whether this is submission or a concession to future judgment, this "Organ 
Publication" is just a way of evading the matter on the Student Council's part. And even if you 
call it an organ, it's in no way related to Koizumi's background, so it should just be a journal. Or 
maybe Literature Club publication. You say you're seeking the fruits of artistic writing borne of 
our club activities, but just how are we to do that? Who's going to do the writing? Even more, 
why do I see Haruhi looking strangely delighted? 

"Well, isn't that interesting!" 

Haruhi showed a smile like a child who had just learned a new game. 

"An organ, a journal, or a doujinshi is okay. We'll do it even if you say there's no use in trying. 
For Yuki's sake. She'll be troubled if the Literature Club is no more. That room already belongs 
to me, and what I hate more than anything is when something of mine is taken." 

Haruhi's arm wasn't on me, but was stretched around the nape of Nagato's neck. 



"Well then, if that's been settled, we will go into a meeting without delay. Yuki, I'll credit your 
name as publisher in the copyright page. I'll be taking care of everything else, of course, so don't 
you worry. First things first, let's all go and investigate how to publish an organ!" 

Haruhi held the back of Nagato's collar, 


She lightly pulled on Nagato, who had been standing quietly, as if Nagato were a balloon, 
opened the door with a bang, then started running with a force like the initial velocity of a rifle 
bullet. 

Though I saw Nagato floating on only her tiptoes when I looked over my shoulder, the sight 
disappeared in an instant; Haruhi, who had come bounding into the Student Council room like 
the wind, grew into the power of a typhoon before she passed. 

"Such a noisy girl." 

The President, who had spoken such a sensible impression, shook his head, and swung his eyes 
to the nearby table. 

"Kimidori-kun, that is enough for you as well. You may leave." 

"Yes, Mister President." 

Kimidori-san meekly bowed her head in assent, closed the minutes, and then quietly stood up. 
After returning the notebook to the bookshelf, she nodded lightly to the President before starting 
to walk. 

As she passed by, she gave me a quick bow. Without meeting my eyes, she exited through the 
door that Haruhi had flung open. From that last, soft flutter of her hair, came a most wonderful 
smell. It was gone before I knew it. 

As I was thinking about the connection between Nagato and Kimidori-san, the President snorted 
through his nose and spoke. 

"Koizumi, close the door." 

Sensing the complete change in tone from a while ago, my eyes went back to the President. 
Koizumi closed the door, and the President, after confirming that it had been locked, pulled a 
nearby pipe chair to himself and sat down roughly, then threw his legs over the table. 


What? 



However, it was still too early to act surprised. The President frowned while searching around in 
his uniform pocket, and just as I was thinking, he was bringing out a cigarette and a lighter, put it 
to his lips and lit it, and did he just start puffing out smoke? 


It was an act that you'd never think the President of the Student Council would do. As I was 
feeling like I had discovered the scene of an arson that was committed by a fireman, 

"That'll do, Koizumi." 

The President left the cigarette in his mouth as he took off his glasses, and, instead of a cell 
phone, brought out an ashtray he had been keeping in his pocket, 

"Even if the plans changed a little, it happened just as you said. But it is a real pain, having to act 
like an idiot. Put yourself in my position. Talking continuously in that damned serious voice is 
tiring." 



£3 

The President left the cigarette in his mouth as he took off his glasses and brought out an ashtray he had 
been keeping in his pocket 

Tapping the ash from his smoldering cigarette into the ash tray, the cool expression that the 
President had maintained until then changed completely. 

"What's with being Student Council President anyway. I don't want to be something like that. It's 
nothing but trouble. Moreover, all I'm doing is making an enemy of that girl with the over-active 
brain. Talk about a stupid job." 

The President, who, in an instant, had completely turned prickly, pushed the cigarette, which was 
giving off some nasty fumes, to the side of the ash tray to put it out, then he pulled out a new 
stick and turned to me. 


Do you smoke? 



"I'll pass. 


I shook my head, and as I finished, I took the opportunity to give Koizumi's smiling profile a 
stabbing look. 

"Is the President one of your associates?" 

Probably, I thought. I tried to make a strange sort of eye contact; if you're going to talk about the 
Literature Club, you shouldn't go through Koizumi and company and just go straight to calling 
on Nagato. I don't have to think much; there should be no reason for me to take the Student 
Council's side. 

Koizumi caught my look, and showed off his smiling face in reply. 

"If you call him an associate then he is an associate, but he's an associate in a difference sense 
from Arakawa-san and Mori-san. He isn't necessarily a part of the 'Organization'." 

Koizumi glanced at the President, who had been puffing the smoke of his second cigarette up to 
the ceiling, 

"He is our agent within the school. To talk a little bit about his motives, he provides us assistance 
in exchange for certain conditions. If Mori-san and I are part of the inner sanctum, then he is of 
the nave." 

It's okay no matter how many you people are, but how'd you get the President of the Student 
Council to do that for you? 

"You could say that it is the result of tremendous effort on my part. I made him, half-hearted as 
he is, stand for candidacy, strove to make him the leading contender with the recommendation of 
the previous Student Council President, and gain the favor of the constituency, and after getting 
the votes of the majority, we worked on our electoral campaign to get an even bigger advantage, 
until finally we succeeded in putting him up as president. It was rather laborious work." 

What an appalling story. 

"For his success with the presidential polls, the necessary cost was about the same as the expense 
for a trifling political party to run in the snap elections for the House of Representatives." 

The story went beyond appalling, and was now causing the life to drain out of me. 

"According to Koizumi's story." 

As the President coughed up smoke in irritation, 

"Before that idiot girl Suzumiya thinks up something strange or something like that, it was 
deemed necessary for me to become president. Because of this, I was made to take on this role 



and wear a face suitable for the Student Council President. Could there really be a story so 
ridiculous? I was even made to wear those glasses for show." 

The story had become even more appalling than before. 

"After comprehensively investigating the image of what Suzumiya-san pictures the President of 
the Student Council to be, we found him to be the one most fitting in this school. Under the 
circumstances, we did not consider his nature. Looks and atmosphere alone were material." 

And he was also careless enough to be convinced by Koizumi's explanation. 

Tall, handsome, and bespectacled; it was irrelevant that he was a pompous upper-classman. He 
was also taking the unpleasant duty of filling the Haruhi-type bad guy position as the Student 
Council President that was using his station to charge a bevy of false accusations on a tiny 
cultural club. 

Indeed, that is what Haruhi has been waiting for: a quick and easy villain. 

However, the fact that you went to all that trouble to produce a Student Council President to 
Haruhi's satisfaction, means that Haruhi isn't so omnipotent after all. If she really was an 
almighty and all-knowing god, you wouldn't have to work so much or anything. And working 
hard for all that maneuvering; isn't that exactly what you did? 

"But because of our exertions, a president that suited Suzumiya-san's wishes was produced as a 
result, and since that was still her desire, can you not say that it was realized through her being 
almighty? Since, consequently, that is still what happened." 

He's rationalizing again. Only Tsuruya-san can outrival Koizumi's mouth. 

The President put out his cigarette in irritation, 

"Anyway, Koizumi. Next year, you better declare for candidacy and become Student Council 
President. If you're saying you want to prevent a situation where Suzumiya or someone declares 
for candidacy, this time you should just do it yourself." 

"Well now, what shall I do? I've been relatively busy, and I've got a feeling that the Suzumiya- 
san of these days wouldn't be a problem even if she became Student Council President." 

More like a big problem. If Haruhi personally sets out to subjugate the school, what are you 
going to do? I have a premonition that we're going to be dragged into a troublesome situation 
somehow. She may be planning to SOS Brigade-ize North High's entire student body. That girl, 
she might just assume that every student is the Student Council President's subordinate. The 
whole school will become alternate space. 

Well, I don't think Haruhi's going to get the seat of the President of the Student Council as long 
as the voting is done honestly, so I guess it's okay. I still believe that North High students have 



common sense, if not good sense. Unless Koizumi does something strange, no matter what kind 
of election activities are done, Haruhi probably won't get to reign at the top of the whole school. 

As I let out a sigh, 

"In other words, Koizumi, this is another one of your scenarios. The Student Council plotting to 

scrap the Literature Club or pretending to be, you have again sowed the seeds for that girl 

to kill some time." 

"But it is only a seed." 

Koizumi blew into the smoke that had been hanging in the air, 

"What happens from here on is unknown. If we get to the settlement date for the club journal, 
and we haven't finished, or if we are not able to meet the requirements " 

He nimbly shrugged his shoulders. 

"When that time comes, we'll just come up with another game. Your brain alone would suffice." 

Participating as an observer is okay, but if it's a position where I have to question myself on 
problems that I've been saddled with, then I'm sorry. Generally, how will doing such a thing 
benefit me? 

"About my acting as the Student Council President," said the delinquent President. "I do it 
because it is delicious. First is the grades. That was the biggest incentive that Koizumi used to 
persuade me. And you said that I'll have an edge on my college exams. You better not forget 
that." 

"Of course I remember. Naturally, we are making arrangements for this to happen." 

The President turned to Koizumi with eyes that looked like they were interrogating a suspicious 
person and, hfff, let out a breath through his nose, 

"I should hope so. Being the President of the Student Council is just too much work, but I've 
come to understand a few things these past few months. The Student Council from before was 
really just a bunch of useless suits. It didn't matter if they were there or not. Meaning, we can 
play around with things as much as we want." 

That was the first smile the President had shown. Though it seemed to have a bit of vileness, it 
was a much more human expression than his calm and cool mask. 


"Respect student independence; that's such an empty slogan. Just how do you interpret that? My 
interest is particularly piqued by the budget. Now that is yummy to lay your eyes on." 



The President was getting more and more surprising. That's just like what Haruhi would expect. 
He's a villain, all right. 

"Though a little abuse of authority is permissible," Koizumi said calmly, "please don't get carried 
away. Even though we are covering for you, there is a limit." 

"I know that. I won't goof up like getting cocky with the teachers, or I'll lose my hold on the 
executives' sympathy. We should create an adequate reason to sweep out the noisy remnants of 
the old Student Council. Then there will be no one to defy me any longer." 

The President was really getting into it. While he was talking nonsense, for some reason I felt a 
strange force pulling me in. I feel uncomfortable saying that this guy's okay, but 

Suddenly, Tsuruya-san's face came back to my mind as alarm klaxons went off. What she said to 
me when we bumped into each other in the corridor was now clear. That girl possessed such 
keen intuition, that she had perceived that the current President of the Student Council had a 

hidden side. The Student Council's spy wasn't me, but Koizumi, Tsuruya-san. And he was 

not just a spy; he was the mastermind. 

Though I'm not particularly concerned about how the President is taking advantage of his post 
and his predisposition for evil, if, by any chance, Haruhi realizes this, she might propose an 
immediate recall and recommend Tsuruya-san to be the next president. And I have a hunch that 
Tsuruya-san would charge right in alongside her with a burst of laughter. If that happens, 
Koizumi and I will automatically be pulled in to Haruhi's side, and the President will be 
overthrown. 

I wish you luck with your shadow endeavors, Mister President. Just do as you please in the 
places that we do not see. 

Well, you probably planned on doing so even if I didn't say it, and even though you'll be playing 
a role that will frequently go against Haruhi, I hope you don't make a mistake in choosing your 
angles. 


I got beside Koizumi after we left the room, and as we walked along the school corridor on our 
way back to the clubroom, I remembered something that I had to ask him. 

"As I understand it, the President is under your personal supervision. Then what about the 
secretary? That Kimidori-san, is she one of your colleagues?" 


You are mistaken. 



Koizumi, like it was nothing, 


"Kimidori-san had taken the secretary post before I even knew it. Truth is, she was already there 
when I had become aware of her, so I didn't concern myself about it. At the early stages of the 
present Student Council, we had felt like we should appoint a different student as secretary. 

When we investigated it later, the records showed that she has been the secretary from the very 
beginning. In everyone's memories as well. No one, including the President, had questioned it. 
Even if they had falsified everything, it was a falsification beyond common sense." 

If it is beyond common sense, why don't you speak with a little more surprise? 

"My surprise is to such an extent, that if something more surprising were to happen, I might have 
cardiac arrest." 

As we leisurely walked on, Koizumi turned his face to the window in the corridor, 

"Kimidori Emiri-san is one of Nagato-san's colleagues. There's no mistaking that." 

That's just as I thought. Kimidori-san coming to us with a request at the time of the kamadouma; 
that's just too much of a coincidence. If it was just that, I might have been convinced that the 
whole thing was just arranged by Nagato and that everything was good, but considering the 
current situation, our encounter back then was no accident. Thinking about what kind of 
colleague she is worries me. 

"There was also the case of Asakura Ryouko. There is, however, no need to worry about that 
point anymore. It seems like Kimidori-san and Nagato-san have a somewhat closer connection. 
At least they haven't shown any hostility between each other." 

I have an idea why. It didn't appear like they were on good terms. But it didn't seem like it was 
going to get worse. 

"We in the 'Organization' wanted to evaluate our intelligence gathering capability a little. Though 
they weren't that many, the 'Organization' contacted some TFEI's similar to Nagato-san, in an 
attempt to understand their intentions. While they were by no means cooperative, we were able 
to make some deductions based on bits and pieces of conversation. It seems like Kimidori-san 
was dispatched by a school within the Integrated Data Sentient Entity which is different from 
Nagato-san's. However, it is different from Asakura Ryouko's; we know that they aren't 
aggressive." 

I, having listened to Koizumi talk about that gossip, also had the same hunch, and since nothing 
was going to start anytime soon, neither Koizumi nor I were anxious. 

Despite knowing that even aliens must have diversity, for sure Kimidori-san is one. She seemed 
to warn Nagato, who had become absolutely furious in the Student Council room, to inaction, so 
she might be from a peaceable school. 



"That may be so. We concluded that there was no need to be overly conscious of her. What I 
think, is that Kimidori-san is Nagato-san's chaperone. I do not know since when, but it seems she 
has settled into that role for now." 

Koizumi spoke with his voice sounding like he was in the middle of an expedition to climb a 
mountain, so I left it at that. As for Nagato, various memories of her were inside me. If I could, 

I'd just go on keeping more and more of those things to myself. Even though we're all members 
of the SOS Brigade, I'd rather not explain things to Koizumi often. But I could play back my 
memories any number of times even if I just recall things by myself. 

For some reason, I silently hurried on my way to the clubroom, and Koizumi also kept his mouth 
closed as he followed. 

If you input weird information in rapid succession, what you hear afterwards will surely remain. 
Therefore, I didn't forget. 

That Haruhi, who had flown away after snatching Nagato, was probably inside. 

I went into idle thought about the outlaw President of the Student Council and Kimidori-san. 

As I opened the door to the Literature Club room, Haruhi's thunderous voice brought me back 
from my daydreaming. 

"You're late, Kyon! And Koizumi as well. What were you doing? Dangit, time is limited! You'd 
better start moving quickly!" 

She seemed so happy, it was like there was no limit to it at the moment. Haruhi had that look on 
her face that she gets, without fail, whenever she has decided to set her sights on whatever goal. 

"We've been frantically looking for the club journals the Literature Club had made. I asked Yuki 
but she said she didn't know." 

Nagato was sitting on an isolated seat by a corner of the table. What she had been staring at, was 
the screen of a notebook computer the Computer Club had left us. 

"Umm " 

Asahina-san was fidgeting as she stood in her maid costume with a worried look on her face. 

"Is someone going to make a book? Is it us? If so, what might we be writing ?" 

I didn't forget that either. Haruhi was going blindly into the making of the Literature Club's 
journal as the Student Council President had told us to do. For Nagato's sake. Nagato was the 
only member of the Literature Club, and the truth was that she had another face as the member of 
an illegal school organization that had been possessing their clubroom despite being outsiders. 



But since the chief of the brigade gave her the okay, it had become the collective responsibility 
of the SOS Brigade to make the club journal. So ultimately, a part of that responsibility will be 
certainly dumped on my head, and more than that, we wouldn't be able to complete the club 
journal if somebody doesn't write something, and that somebody does not exempt any brigade 
member, including me. 

"Now then, pick one." 

Lying in Haruhi's palm, were four folded scraps of paper. The paper lots were like those used for 
classroom seating assignments. Though I was doubtful about what these lots were going to 
decide, I picked one up with my fingers. Haruhi grinned just as I did. 

Koizumi looked amused, and Asahina-san was nervous as they each took a scrap of paper into 
their hands, and as Haruhi passed the last lot to Nagato, 

"You will be writing what is written there. That will then be placed in the club journal. Once 
we've settled everything, you will immediately take your seats! It's time to start writing!" 

As an unpleasant premonition went through the top of my head, I opened the paper lot that was 
made from a cut-up notebook page. Haruhi's handwriting jumped out like a freshly-sliced fish 
that was served as-is. 

"Romance story." 

Came from my mouth as I read it out loud. I was immediately plagued by agony. A romance 
story? Me? I have to write such a thing? 

"Right you are." 

Said Haruhi, with a smile like a tactician that was taking advantage of a person's weakness, 

"It's been decided fair and square by lottery. I won't accept any complaints. Well then, what are 
you doing, Kyon? Get in front of the computer right now." 

I looked around, and there on the table were an adequate number of notebook computers that had 
been left in startup status. Although time and effort aren't needed to prepare well, can we write 
quickly when you've only just told us to write? 

While I was considering the scrap of paper in my hand like it was a grenade with the pin pulled 
out, 

"Koizumi, what did you pick?" 

I asked as I looked for a way out, but while I was thinking that we could possibly switch, 


Mystery is what I got. 



Koizumi answered with his refreshing smile as before; his face did not look particularly worried. 
Then Asahina-san, with her face embarrassed as usual, 


"For me, it's a fairy-tale. Fairy-tales are aimed at children, so, um, will a bedtime story do?" 

You don't have to answer that even if you heard me. But, from a mystery to a fairy-tale? 
Between those and a romance story, which would you prefer? 

I turned my attention to Nagato. As Nagato quietly opened her scrap of paper, she noticed my 
look, and lightly turned her wrist to show me Haruhi's lively handwriting. What she had written 
there was "fantasy horror." 

Though I didn't know what the difference was between a fantasy horror and a mystery, 

"I'm relieved that it's not a romance story at least. Because if it were me, I don't think I could 
write something like that." 

Koizumi said, as if he were trying to tweak my nerve, and made an obvious show of being 
relieved. I want to know the secret to how you can act so relaxed. 

"That is simple. In my case, there were the mystery games that we conducted in the summer of 
last year and winter of this year, which I could treat as real events and novelize. After all, those 
were my scenarios from the start." 

Koizumi coolly turned to the table, and loosened his expression as he began working on the 
notebook computer. Nagato lowered her eyes to the liquid crystal while keeping perfectly still. 
She could've been pondering what a fantasy horror was, or maybe she was just thinking about 
Kimidori-san. 

There was no need for explanations, but panic marks were swirling within Asahina-san's eyes as 
she went all nervous, and I was probably the same. Then I thought about it more. There were 
only four scrap paper lots. And the SOS Brigade had five members. 

"Haruhi." 

I said, standing like an image of the two Deva kings after inhaling some laughing gas, 

"What are you going to write?" 

"Oh yeah, what I'm going to write." 

Haruhi sat at the chiefs desk, and raised an arm band that had been prepared in advance. 

"But you see, there's a much more important job for me. Listen up. A lot of work goes into the 
making of a book. There has to be someone who will handle all the supervision. And I'll be the 
one who's going to do that." 



Haruhi, after swiftly putting on the arm band, declared as she puffed out her chest in pride. 


"For one week starting today, I will be temporarily sealing my role as the Brigade Chief. Since 
this is the Literature Club, a different position is appropriate." 

The brightly shining new arm band told the whole story. 

And thus Haruhi arbitrarily selected herself to be the Editor-in-Chief, ignoring the bewildered 
Asahina-san and me as she flamboyantly spoke. 

"Okay then, everyone! Get to work at once! You'll be writing anyhow, so no grumbling! And it 
better be amusing!" 

Haruhi laid back in the chiefs seat as she stretched out her legs, and lorded over the miserable 
brigade members. 

"Of course, if I don't find it amusing, then it's no good." 


So . 

In the week following that day, we stationed ourselves in the Literature Club room, and for that 
matter, we were diligently working on a Literature-Club-like activity. 

Running bravely on the forefront was Asahina-san. Although it's been decided that a fairy tale 
suits her, if someone were told to write without warning and that someone started writing 
without any objections, then it would be simple for anyone to become a fairy tale writer. 

Still, Asahina-san was a hard worker. With an earnest face, she would read from a mountain of 
books she had borrowed from the library, stick post-its anywhere and everywhere, and then 
diligently push her pencil. 

Haruhi, meanwhile, was grinning as she gazed through a doujinshi she had borrowed from the 
Manga Club as a resource material. 

Asahina-san was steadily submitting manuscripts, and Haruhi steadily kept on rejecting them. 
"Hmm." 

As Haruhi hummed, she continued to read the manuscript that Asahina-san, who was growing 
weak, had submitted who knows how many times, 



"It's a lot better, but it still lacks impact. Ah, that's it, Mikuru-chan, go and add in some drawings. 
Make it feel more like a picture book. People will be attracted with just one quick look, and 
you'll bring out the flavor that text alone cannot." 

"Drawings?" 

Asahina-san seemed to weep at the additional, unreasonable demand. However, to overturn 
something Editor-in-Chief Haruhi has suggested even once is no ordinary feat, so Asahina-san 
gave in once more and wearily started drawing. 

The all-too sincere Asahina-san, went to the Art Club and attended a lecture on sketching, then 
continued on to the Manga Club to study how to write four panel comics, showing perseverance 
without saying anything more, and since making tea is naturally difficult, I had to silently sip on 
tasteless green tea that Koizumi and I had made, and passed the time in inactivity. 

And so, there's no romance story yet. But if it were a cat observation diary, I'd have as much 
material as I need. 

Only Koizumi was harmoniously making progress with his pen, as Nagato occasionally hit some 
keys. Though her high speed touch typing during the game war was unbelievable, it seems like 
she wasn't having much success transforming the information in her head into words. I began to 
think whether there were some reason for her silence, but all the same, the fantasy horror that 
Nagato was writing was pulling on my interest, so I peered into her display, 


Nagato quickly turned the notebook computer sideways, protecting the display from my eyes, 
and expressionlessly looked up. 

Come on, just a little bit. 

"No." 

Nagato said in a small voice, and every time I tried to look, she would change the angle with 
perfect timing. No matter how many times I tried, it was impossible. That just got me a little 
more interested, and a little while later, I tried jumping out from behind Nagato, but I could not 
surpass Nagato's reflexes, and finally, 


Nagato pierced me with a silent look from the side, and I was easily repelled. Returning to my 
own seat, I went back to monitoring the white screen of the word processor where not a single 
character had been written . 


Well, the events that were unfolding in this club room, were how these past few days had felt 
like. 



Things came to something of an impasse, but even though it had become a sort of flying 
sensation, a change of pace came at the same time as Asahina-san gave an advanced introduction 
of her fairy-tale picture book. 

Having been continually rejected by Editor-in-Chief Haruhi, and then having drawings added 
under orders, Asahina-san's work continually troubled her, so when I saw her agonizing over 
word selection, I had to throw in my suggestions, and finally, it was completed after the Editor- 
in-Chief put in her own revisions. 

Well, I'll give it a look for the time being. 


□ 


It was not so long ago, but it was a story 


from before the present. 


Deep in the forest of a certain small 
country, there was a lone mountain 
cabin. 

And there lived Snow White together 
with the Seven Dwarves. 

Snow White had not been driven out, but 
had run away from the castle by herself 
and come here. Life in the castle was not 
so interesting to her, it seems. Since it 
was a small country and she was their 
princess, they had decided to make use 
of her by arranging a marriage of 
convenience. Isn't that detestable? Snow 
White thought so, too. 



However, she was slowly getting tired of 



living in the forest as well. 


Thanks to the Dwarves, I don't have to 
worry about food, clothing, or shelter, 
and I've become good friends with the 
animals in the forest, but I wonder if the 
castle is doing well by itself, she came to 
think. 

Those egotistic words just jumped out, 
but the castle was filled with nothing but 
good people. On the date when the 
arranged marriage was supposed to 
happen, the Small Country had to take 
hostages and form alliances just so they 
could get strong enough to survive. 


□ 


At around the same time, a mermaid who 
was swimming in a beach near the forest, 
had just rescued a prince who had been left 
abandoned on a shipwreck. 

The mermaid moved the Prince to the 
shore, but the unconscious Prince just 
kept on sleeping. He didn't wake up no 
matter what she did. The worried 
mermaid then made up her mind to take 
him to where Snow White was. 

Snow White had been her friend since 
the time she had gone to the forest. And 
the mermaid remembered that Snow 
White had said, "If you find something 
interesting, bring it to me ! " 



The mermaid asked the Good-Natured 
Witch to change her fish tail to legs, and 
she carried the unconscious Prince to the 
Dwarves' cabin. 


But even when she saw the Prince that 
the mermaid had brought, Snow White 
wasn't delighted much. What she 
thought of as interesting was a little 
different. A prince that just kept on 
sleeping was not something she found 
that appealing 

Although having to take care of someone 
was exciting at the beginning, Snow 
White was becoming more and more 
bored with it. Because he never opened 
his eyes at all. She was getting tired of 
looking at his sleeping face. 

I wonder if he'll wake up if I hit him 
hard, she started thinking, when an 
express messenger from Snow White's 
castle had come. 

This is what the messenger said. Our 
neighbor, the Great Empire, has 
mobilized a vast force to cross into our 
borders, and lay siege to the castle, and 
the way things were going, it's going to 
fall soon, if it hasn't fallen already. 


How dreadful. 



□ 


When Snow White heard that, she left the 
Prince, who never woke up no matter how 
long they waited, in the care of the 
mermaid, and left the forest with the Seven 
Dwarves. The first place they went to was a 
craggy mountain. There, the Tactician who 
had become a hermit lived by himself. If the 
tales were true, then he would not 
associate with someone unless they had 
visited him three times, but Snow White 
ordered the Dwarves to capture the 
Tactician, and she appointed him their 
Chief-of- Staff. The Tactician smiled bitterly, 
and with a "Well, okay I guess," he gave his 
allegiance to Snow White. 

Thus the number of Snow White's party 
grew to nine, and as soon as they had 
climbed down from the mountain, they 
gathered volunteer soldiers in the towns 
and villages where the Empire's forces 
had not yet been to. They were totally 
unable to assemble enough people to 
match the Great Empire's troops, but all 
the same, Snow White raised an anti- 
imperialist banner and set out for the 
castle. They defeated the Imperial Forces 
that had been sent to intercept them one 
by one, and garnered a series of victories 
in various places, until they finally 
recaptured the castle, after which they 
pursued and annihilated the retreating 
Imperials, then went on from there by 
making a counter-invasion and 
overthrowing the Empire in the blink of 
an eye, and the country became a part of 
her own dominion. How surprising. 

It did not end there. Snow White, the 
Tactician, and the Seven Dwarves, 
formed a big army and ran through all of 
the countries in all of the land, and using 


various strategies and conspiracies, they 
were able to unite the continent. The 
Age of the Warring States was ended, 
and they were visited by a period of 
peace and harmony. 


□ 

Snow White, having nothing more to do, 
left the rest to the Tactician and went home 
to the forest. Though she was no longer 
concerned about the arranged marriage, 
returning to the castle would just mean 
getting bored everyday. Playing freely in the 
forest was better. 

Snow White came back to the cabin 
along with the Seven Dwarves, and was 
surprised to see that the Prince was still 
sleeping. She had completely forgotten 
about him. 

Ah, during that time, the mermaid had 
been taking good care of the Prince. 

Snow White grabbed an apple the Forest 
Bear had brought while visiting, and 
used it to hit the Prince on the head. 

"That's too much sleep already, now 
wake up!" 

It is said that the Prince opened his eyes, 
three days later. 

What happened to everyone after that, 
no one knows. 

Still, I feel certain that everyone became 
happy. And I wish that they all did. 




How do I say this, that was just so like Asahina-san; even though it was a fable of jumbled up 

fairy-tales mixed in with war stories, the feeling of desperation reaches through to us like it was 
our own. This was already more than adequate. Which parts Haruhi had her hand in, I leave to 
your imagination. 

Okay, enough about Asahina-san's worries, the problem now is how the task that's been given to 
me is still untouched. That plot to make me write a story was unreasonable from the start, but if 
you add in the romance theme, then it moves way past unreasonable and goes straight into the 
world of foreign concepts. Just what can I do? 

On the other hand, it surprised me how Haruhi had engaged in activities that were relatively 
appropriate for Editor-in-Chief. 

Between us four, the number of pages for the manuscript was running short, and Haruhi, who 
had brought up that we were lacking variety, finally resorted to outsourcing for some writers. 

The very first to become victims were Taniguchi and Kunikida, and then continued on to 
Tsuruya-san and the Computer Club President getting the position of holding the deadline that 
Haruhi had established. 

It seems like everyone had become Associate Brigade Members as far as Haruhi was concerned, 
but they were all totally unrelated to the Literature Club. 

Though I didn't have any time to feel sorry for myself, I'd still prefer it if the responsibility of 
having to write would just disappear. But I don't think Haruhi would ever let it pass if I ran away 
from my article. 

As the time limit that the evil-acting Student Council President had set drew closer and closer, 
Taniguchi let out, "Why do I have to write an Interesting Days essay or whatever!" in a resentful 
voice, and, "Now, now, Taniguchi. That's better than my twelve-part Subject-by-Subject-Study- 
Aids column, isn't it?" Kunikida's easygoing voice struck my ears while we were waiting for 
morning homeroom one day. 

Haruhi, who had come to school later than me, thrust some copy paper at me without saying 
good morning. 

"What's this?" 

"Yesterday, Yuki submitted her manuscript when it was time to go home." 


Haruhi made a face like she had swallowed some dental filling that had broken off along with 
some toothpaste, 



"I read through it carefully at home, but it's a pretty strange story. Even though fantastical horror 
is still horror, I had trouble evaluating it. And it's only as lengthy as a short-short story. Here, 
you read it for a bit." 

If it's the article Nagato had written without saying anything, then I'll read it as much as I can. 

I took the copy paper from Haruhi, and started following the printed text with my eyes. 


□ Untitled !□ Nagato Yuki 


I am a ghost, said the girl when we met about □ □ □ □ before. 

When I asked for her name, "I do not have a name." was her answer. "Since I do not have a 
name, I am a ghost. You are probably the same." the girl continued. 

That is correct. I am also a ghost. If a being is able to converse with ghosts, then that being must 
also be a ghost. Like I am now. 

"Well then, shall we go?" 

She said, and I followed. The girl's steps were so light, she looked completely alive. "Where will 
you go?" the girl asked me, as she stopped moving her feet and turned around. 

"You can go anywhere. Was there a place you wanted to go to?" 

I was lost in thought for a moment. Where have I gotten to? What is this place? Why am I here? 
As I stood still, I couldn't help but gaze into the girl's dark eyes. 


Weren't you thinking of going to □□□□?' 




£3 

White things were falling from the sky. Numerous, tiny, fluttering, aqueous crystals. 

The girl had discerned my answer. When I heard those words, I finally understood what my own 
role was. Yes. I was on my way there. How could I forget? For this important matter, I had a 
reason to live and exist. 

It is something I must not forget. 

"So, that's that, then." 

The girl smiled happily. I nodded, and expressed my thanks to her. 

"Good bye." 

The girl disappeared, leaving me by myself. She had probably returned to her place. And in the 
same way, I had to return to my place. 

White things were falling from the sky. Numerous, tiny, fluttering, aqueous crystals. They fell to 
the earth and vanished. 

It was one of the wonders that filled time and space. In this world, such wonders were common. I 
stood absolutely still. The passing of time had lost its meaning. 

Those wonders of bound cotton continued to fall, one after another. 

This shall be my name. 


And with that thought, I was a ghost no more. 


Hmm ? 


I raised my face after reading that much. 

Before morning homeroom, students were arriving steadily; a familiar scene that was spreading 
throughout the classroom. Ordinarily, Haruhi would be gazing outside the window in the seat 
behind me, or poking at my back with a mechanical pencil, but this time, Haruhi was stretching 
out her neck as she peered into my hand, looking troubled, and my face was thoughtful as I 
chased letters on the copy paper with my eyes. 

Well, I was probably making a face that closely resembled Haruhi's. 

And it was all because of what had been written. Being made to read that first thing in the 
morning is more than a little difficult, I feel. 

As I recall it, the lot that Nagato had drawn was □ Fantasy HorrorD. 

Having lifted my eyes from Nagato's story, I turned sideways to face Haruhi's profile. 

"Hey Haruhi, I might not be familiar with fantasy or horror, but are recent fantasy horrors like 
this?" 

"I'm not familiar with it, either." 

Haruhi put her hand on her chin, and tilted her head like an editor who was facing a writer that, 
in her judgement, had written something troubling. 

"It feels like a fantasy, but it's not much of a horror. But, hmm. Doesn't it feel very Yuki-like? 
Maybe, Yuki gets scared at that stuff." 

If there was something that made Nagato feel scared, then I'd probably be terrified the most and 
the worst if I were to see it. I really don't want something like that to appear. Even if it's just 
inside a story. 

"By the way, you." 

As I viewed Haruhi's confused face with fresh thought, 

"If you didn't know anything about Fantasy Horrors, why did you make her write such a thing? 
You should've considered that when you were deciding on the genres." 

"I did consider it. A little." 


Haruhi confiscated the first sheet of copy paper from my hands, 



"I felt that a simple horror wouldn't be interesting, so I added fantasy to it. That's the result when 
I deliberated on which genres to write on the lots. A mystery, a fairy-tale, a romance 
story if you consider these, all that's left is horror, isn't it?" 

You missed Sci-Fi. Moreover, I don't think you spent any more than three seconds to deliberate 
on the genre selection. You probably just scribbled down what you randomly thought of one by 
one. 

Haruhi gave a slight smile, 

"I thought I'd make you all write something different through miscasting. Since Sci-Fi is Yuki's 
specialty, that wouldn't be any fun, don't you think?" 

I jerked involuntarily, but an invisible hand patted me on the chest. Setting aside whether or not 
it would be Sci-Fi, Nagato could write something cosmic without blinking an eye. Since she was 
an alien, anyway. Though I thought that Haruhi might have noticed something, the many Sci-Fi 
books in Nagato's collection probably made it obvious even to Haruhi, so it isn't strange that she 
would know Nagato's specialty. 

No, wait. If that was the case, then the same would be true for mysteries. 

"Yep, if I could help it, I wanted Mikuru-chan or you to write the mystery. Seeing what kind of 
crazy thing you'd submit would've been interesting. But if it was sci-fi, it would've been allowed 
even if it wasn't wild, is why. So I had to cross it out even if it broke my heart." 

Though I wanted to retort about how biased that was, even if I made something out of the 
contents of the lottery or the results, the time won't be reset. At this stage, the order to write a 
□ Romance Story □ that I had been saddled with won't be cancelled, and for that matter, even if I 
could've written a mystery, fairy-tale, or fantasy horror, they're not that much better than a 
romance story. If only it were sci-fi, then I could've used some of my experiences as a basis. But 
then, I don't think I should let Editor-in-Chief Haruhi know about any of my actual experiences 
as it is. 

As Haruhi flapped Nagato's fantasy horror short-story about, 

"Well, it's good that Koizumi-kun got the mystery. Of course, if there isn't at least one thing that 
could be read respectably, then we wouldn't have a club journal. If we made everything too 
original, then the readers will run away." 

This girl, she seems to be planning to go right on to changing the Literature Club journal into a 
periodical. The urgent thing right now is to fight the Student Council President's plot until the 
end. There's something we have to remember. The SOS Brigade doesn't come in a package with 
the Literature Club, and is just living off of it. 

"I know that. There isn't one thing that I have to ask you to teach me, in or out of school. 
Because I am the Brigade Chief, and you are just a single Brigade Member." 



Haruhi showered me with sharp looks, 

"But that's okay. Yuki's story has a continuation. Go read the second page." 

I dropped my eyes to the remaining copy paper in my hand, and began reading the article that 
had been printed with a pretty, Ming ( typeface ) font that made me think of Nagato's handwriting. 


U Untitled 2D Nagato Yuki 


Until then, I had never been by myself. I was one of many. I was a part of the set. 

My group was bound together like ice, eventually expanded like water, and finally diffused like 
vapor. 

And a single particle of that vapor, was me. 

I was able to go anywhere. I went to various places, and saw various things. But I did not learn 
anything. There was only the act of seeing, for that was the only function allowed me. 

For a long interval, I was like that. Time was pointless. All the phenomena in that artificial 
universe held no significance. 

But in time, I found meaning. Proof of my existence. 

Matter attracts matter. This is the truth. I was drawn in, because it possessed form. 

Light, darkness, contradiction, and common sense. I had encountered, and connected with each 
one. Those functions were not in me, but perhaps I might not mind having them. 

If I were allowed to, I would have them. 

As I continue to wait, will those wonders keep on falling? 


Those tiniest of wonders. 



The second part ended with that. 

"Hmm-hmm " 

I twisted my head, as I read it over and over. It was hard to call it horror or fantasy horror, and it 
didn't even really feel like a story; if anything, it seemed more like an autobiography. Or maybe 
her thoughts; it also felt like she had simply listed down whatever words came to her mind. 

Nagato's story, huh 

As I was reading through it, I thought of something else. No matter what I did, I would never 
forget anything about that December of last year. And at the heart of that, is the other Nagato. At 
that time, when Nagato was in the Literature Club, could she have been writing a story? With an 
outdated computer, all alone inside the clubroom 

Whatever she was thinking about my silence, and the thoughtful look on my face, Haruhi seized 
the second sheet of copy paper from my fingers, 

"And now for the ending, page three. The more I read it, the less I understand the story. So I'd 
really like to hear your impressions." 


□ Untitled 3D Nagato Yuki 


A black coffin remained in the room. There was nothing else. 
Above the coffin in the middle of the dark club room, sat one man. 
"Good day." 

He said to me. He was smiling. 


Good day. 



As I kept standing there, a white cloth alighted from behind the man. In the middle of the 
darkness, the cloth was enveloped by a pale light. 

"Pardon my lateness." 

The white cloth said. Or rather, the person who was wearing the big, white piece of cloth. 
Through holes cut out where the eyes would be, black pupils were looking at me. 

It seemed like the one inside was a girl. I could tell from her voice. 

The man laughed in a low voice. 

"The recital has not yet started." 

The man did not move from above the coffin. 

"There is time, still." 

The recital. 

I was remembering something. What was I going to present here? Quickly, now. But I could not 
remember. 

"There is time." 

The man said. He was smiling at me. The apparition of the white girl danced around happily. 
"We will wait. Until you remember." 

The girl said. I gazed at the black coffin. 

There was only one thing; I remembered why I was here. 

My place was within the coffin. 

I had come from there, and I had come back here so I could return. But the man was sitting on 
the coffin. As long as he doesn't leave, I cannot go in. 

However, there was nothing in me to present. I wasn't qualified to join the recital. 

The man started singing in a low voice. Synchronizing with the white cloth's dance. 

As long as he doesn't leave, I cannot go in. 



Hmm. This is pretty disturbing. 


Dropping the third page on my desk, I sympathized with Haruhi. 

As I'd expected from Nagato, she even writes cryptically. It felt like she had completely ignored 
the fantasy horror theme, and it turned out more like a poem than a story. 

"But it doesn't look like your ordinary poem." 

As Haruhi piled up the three pages of copy paper, and stuffed them into her bag, 

"Hey Kyon. To me, it doesn't seem like Yuki just wrote this without thinking. Really, it made me 
feel like it was reflecting Yuki's inner self. But the ghost and coffin, what do you think those are 
metaphors for?" 

"How should I know." 

I answered, but the truth was, I felt like I was able to read into it on some level, somehow. I don't 
think the DILI from the story could be anyone but Nagato. But as for the other characters, the 
□ Ghost GirlD, the DManD, and the □ Apparition Girin, it seemed like the ghost and the 
apparition are the same person, but somehow again, the man seemed to be Koizumi, and the girl 
gives a feeling like Asahina-san. Perhaps she had modeled the characters after people who were 
nearby at the moment. Haruhi and I may not have come out, but as far as the desire to make an 
appearance, I was not too self-conscious about it. 

"That's okay, isn't it?" 

I gazed outside the window, and as I looked down at the empty tennis courts, 

"It's a story that Nagato wrote in her own way. Trying to read the author's inner thoughts from a 
story, is just troublesome. Such a question is only good for Modern Literature." 

"Oh, well." 

Haruhi also looked out the window. There wasn't any snow falling out of season, but with eyes 
that looked as if they were observing flurries, she turned to me, smiling like a spring flower. 

"For Yuki's part, I'm okaying this. Who knows where it will go if I tell her to retake it. Koizumi- 
kun seems to be doing well in his writing, and Mikuru-chan's picture book seems to be going as 
planned." 

That smiling face was transforming from the Brigade Chief to the Editor-in-Chief. 



"And then? How about you? I haven't received your prologue yet, but when are you going to 
finish?" 


I was hoping that she'd forgotten, but I was wrong. 

"I'm telling you." 

Haruhi smiled eerily, 

"You better write a proper story. Of course, I'll reject it if it isn't romantic; no horrors, mysteries, 
or fairy-tales. And don't try to deceive me in some strange way." 

I looked around the classroom in search of salvation. 

Truth is, I haven't written a single line. Which should be no surprise. What'll happen if I don't 
write something that looks like a romance story? That question was now running around inside 
my body faster than my resistance against the influenza virus; I had thought of hiring Taniguchi 
and Kunikida, fellows who had also not written a single line, as my reinforcements, but my own 
two friends, who had kept sneaking peeks this way as they huddled covertly some time ago, 
averted their eyes together, and at the time when I was crossing myself as it seemed like Haruhi 
was going to crush the allied troops, the chime that signaled the start of class had rung at last. 

So, I was able to avoid the up-and-coming burden for a short time; although I couldn't totally 
escape, I had succeeded in putting it off for a good couple of minutes anyway. 

But you, about the romance story. 

As I pretended to take the period's lessons diligently, I was thinking as deep as a sunken ship that 
had fallen in the Challenger Deep. 

Well now, what to write? 


After classes, when I went to the club room to escape Haruhi's manuscript demands, 

"How about writing something from your real experiences?" 

Koizumi said as his fingers glided over the keyboard of his notebook computer non-stop. 

"Has romance ever gotten you all tangled up? If so, it would be practical to just write it as it is, 
and stick to declaring that it's fiction. I recommend that you write it in first-person perspective. 
In your case, it shouldn't be a problem to transform your usual thinking into writing." 



Is that sarcasm? 


I replied negligently, before I turned my eyes back to work gazing at the screen saver being 
displayed on the notebook computer screen. 

The club room had become a place of temporary repose. The reason being, Haruhi was not at her 
desk. 

Haruhi, who had been planning on waging total war with the Student Council, displayed such 
shrewdness that I wanted to attach "Demon" to a portion of the "Editor-in-Chief" arm band, and 
was now running around here and there. 

Her very first targets were the nearby classmates, Taniguchi and Kunikida. As soon as 
homeroom ended, Haruhi swiftly captured Taniguchi who had thought of escaping from the 
classroom, and with "I'm going home" and "You can't go home" the rebellion was unfurled, and 
with Kunikida, who had been watching the failed getaway, also in hand, she forcibly sat them 
down, and then pushed a sheaf of blank loose-leaf paper in front of them as she made a 
declaration. 

"There will be no going home until you finish writing!" 

With her face looking strangely delighted, what was it, I don't know if she'd woken up to a new 
hobby of inflicting pain. 

Taniguchi kept pouting and complaining, while Kunikida slowly shook his head as he grasped 
his mechanical pencil. Though Kunikida was somewhat composed, Taniguchi looked seriously 
annoyed, and I could see that everything Haruhi was doing was leading him to missing the bus 
ride to heaven in the future, so to speak. I know the feeling. If they didn't immediately write an 
interesting essay as Haruhi had said she was expecting, they couldn't even think of escaping. 

"Just what is this interesting days essay, anyway?" Taniguchi said. 

"Kyon, your days are probably all interesting. You should be the one to write this." 

No way. I'm already full up with my own work. 

"Suzumiya-san, isn't twelve parts too much for a column?" Kunikida leisurely said, "Can't we go 
with five parts at most? English, Math, Classics, Chemistry, and Physics are my specialties, but 
I'm poor at Biology, Japanese History, and Civics." 

That many specialties is plenty, so I'll also be anticipating your manuscript. Twelve columns of 
Subject-by-Subject-Study- Aids. If these are really helpful, there's nothing I'd want to read more. 

Haruhi said to the captive twosome, 

"I'll be back in one hour. If you have nothing at that time You understand, don't you?" 



After making the clear threat, she dashed out of the classroom. She must be busy with other 
things, this Editor-in-Chief of ours. 


On the other hand, I have to add that there were also people with free time who had willingly 
accepted Haruhi's writing commissions. 

One of those people, needless to say, is Tsuruya-san. The upper-classman who was, perhaps, as 
skillful in everything as Haruhi, 

"You okay to write something?" 

At Haruhi's abstract request, she readily and quickly gave her consent, 

"When's the deadline? Okay, I'll make sure to finish by then! Wahaha, how interesting!" 

She answered with a smile. Just what is she planning on writing? 

And there was another person, or should I say, a group of persons. The Computer Research Club. 
In addition to the course of the fixed computer game war, they had also called on Nagato now 
and then, and the original Brigade Chief, who had leapt into the Computer Club that she had 
completely changed into the SOS Brigade Second Branch in typical Haruhi fashion, got their 
definite promise to write a □Complete Reviews of the Latest Computer Games DThe Game- 
Breaking Primer □, something totally unfamiliar to me, before coming back. For some reason, 
everyone in the Computer Club, from the President and below, seemed to be fairly eager. 
Incidentally, since I haven't played any legitimate games on the computer, I wasn't interested one 
bit. 



£3 

Her very first targets were the nearby classmates, Taniguchi and Kunikida. 



Haruhi's work did not end with that. Haruhi had thought of making the cover of the club journal 
a little better, so she took off on foot to the Art Club, asked who the best, most expert club 
member was at drawing, and coerced a one-page drawing from that person, and since it wasn't 
flowery enough with only text, she had thought that an illustration was also necessary, and she 
placed a rush order with the Manga Club. I thought it was just too much trouble, but 
unfortunately, since I wasn't synchronized with how much other people were troubled, I left 
Taniguchi and Kunikida in the classroom, and headed for the club room. 

Haruhi's figure was nowhere in the club room. She must still be running around school for the 
aforementioned reasons, and although I should feel greatly relieved by that, the time I spend 
staring at the screen saver is far from relaxing. 

"Hnn, hnn." 

Sitting at the table with a grim expression on her face, was the rare sight of Asahina-san in her 
sailor uniform. 

At this time, Asahina-san's chic picture book fairy-tale was not yet finished, so all I can see was 
her figure leaning her head over the table as she moved her pencil over the paper, and I had to 
become the tea server myself. 

Beside her, Nagato was maintaining her usual air. Around that figure, who looked like an avid 
reader type with a hard-cover book open before her, the sense of a finished task was drifting 
about. 


With the three-page short short that she had submitted to Haruhi, it was judged that her own 
duties were concluded, and she had completely returned to being the Nagato of before. The 
invisible aura she had formerly displayed in the Student Council room seemed like it was just a 
lie. 

And if it were a lie, I must honestly confess that I'd be lying if I said I wouldn't be worried by 
such a Nagato. What feelings did Nagato have when she wrote such a strange pseudo-story, or 
wasn't she thinking anything by letting Haruhi see it, or how I wished she would make an 
author's note on just what kind of story it was; there were many questions I wanted to ask her, 
but rather than talk about it in front of Asahina-san and Koizumi, I'll just have to wait. 

When it's just the two of us, I'll grab the chance. 

I took my eyes off the Literature Club member who was in her Normal Mode as she 
expressionlessly read a book. There were only two computers running on the table. Like its 
owner's lips, the notebook computer in front of Nagato had its lid shut like a shellfish and had 
been put away to the side. 



If I could, I wanted to do that, too. My body, which was feeling remorse for wasting the Earth's 
limited resources, should just immediately turn off the switch of the computer that had been 
given to me. Powered up as it was, it was just a waste of energy, and while I was at it, I wanted 
to turn off the switch to my head and go into a deep sleep at once. 

I was giving a sigh as I was thinking all of that, when Koizumi chimed in. 

"There's no need to think about it so deeply. You should just write the facts." 

It must be easy for you to put what's already in your head to writing, but I can't think up 
something from scratch. Tell me about your romantic experiences, will you. I could write a 
lovely story with you as the leading part. 

"I'd rather hold off on that." 

Koizumi rested his touch-typing hands, and turned to me with a questioning smile. And with a 
soft voice, 

"You really have nothing? In all your life up till now, to be a captive of love, and to go out with a 

girl? No, maybe not this first year of high school since you can't write about that, how 

about something from before? What about middle school?" 

As I looked up at the ceiling and consulted my past memories, Koizumi's voice grew softer and 
softer, 

"Do you remember what I told you during the grass-lot baseball tournament?" 

How could I, you're a bastard who talks about a lot of things. I won't even try to keep your lines 
memorized in detail. 

"Since Suzumiya-san desired it, you became the fourth batter; I think you remember our chat 
about that." 

I looked suspiciously at Koizumi's gentleman-like smile. That again? 

"Yes, that again. In short, your drawing of the lot for the romance story was not by chance." 

I, too, have long been doubtful of the odds in lotteries. I know that you can make someone draw 
a particular lot even if you're not a magician. 

I glanced at Nagato; she didn't seem to be particularly listening. And Asahina-san looked like she 
was doing her best to make friends with the pencil and the eraser. 

"That is to say, I think Suzumiya-san wants to know about your previous romantic patterns. And 
so, she had made one of the genres a romance story. An unreservedly romantic 
experience since she's never had one, Suzumiya-san had expressed some hesitation." 



Just where is there anything like hesitation within her? She's the kind of person who just bowls 
you over without any restraint or greeting. 

Koizumi smiled lightly, 

"It's in that part of her that we call the heart. Yes, Suzumiya-san looks like a person who knows 
exactly where that thin line lies. But it was probably unconscious, and assuming it were, then we 
can add that her senses are brilliantly keen. In fact, she has never acted like she would step into 
our hearts with her shoes on. Or at least she's never acted that way to me. Well, on the other 
hand, I could only go into Suzumiya-san's mind a little bit." 

And I've only gone about twice, now that you mention it. 

"But I'm still not conceding the line that she is a girl without restraints." 

I said; I could offer that much resistance, at least. 

"Otherwise, she wouldn't have kicked down the door to enter the Student Council room, or 
commandeer the Literature Club in the first place. Or made me write such a thing." 

"That's okay, isn't it? This is enjoyable work. An activity to protect a small and weak club; high 
school students making a resistance against the big and powerful Student Council " 

Koizumi had become rather eerie as his refreshing eyes got this distant look in them, before he 
regained his smile. 

"The truth is, I have fantasized about such a school-life. More and more, I am acknowledging 
Suzumiya-san's divinity, and at times I've felt like I wanted to kneel down and worship her. 
Because she has granted me my dream." 

That was through your own scripting. If you're pulling the other end of the string, then how is 
that the realization of your dream? But I appreciate the effort. 

"Nevertheless, your drawing of that lot was not of my manipulation. Let's go back to what we 
were talking about before. What I'm saying is, it's easy to understand that Suzumiya-san is 
hoping you will write something like your philosophy on love. And if I may say so, I'd like to 
know that as well." 

Koizumi, in a bit louder voice, 

"From what I've happened to hear, wasn't there a girl you were close to in Middle School? How 
about something like that episode?" 


So you keep saying. But there's totally no such story. 



As I narrowed the space between my eyebrows, and rubbed it with my fingers, I stole a glance at 
the faces of the other two people in the clubroom. 

Asahina-san was focusing all of her heart at working on her illustrated fairy-tale, and it didn't 
look like our conversation was reaching her ears. 

As for Nagato , 

Though she also seemed to be concentrating all of her optic nerves on reading, I couldn't be sure 
about the sensitivity of her ears, and besides that, I really don't think it's possible to hide 
something from Nagato no matter how much I lower my voice. 

That main thing is, why was I getting this guilty feeling? How did Kunikida, Nakagawa, and all 
my other classmates in middle school come to such a strange misunderstanding all together? It's 
nothing short of a mystery. 

"At any rate, I don't plan on writing that story, either." 

I declared. To that bastard whose eyes were smiling in amusement in particular hey 

Koizumi, what's with the knowing look? Because it's all wrong. And it isn't because it's 
something I forgot from the past, either. It's a real meaningless story, anyway. 

"Let's leave it at that, then." 

Though what he said irritated me, Koizumi went on and gave a new suggestion without stopping. 

"So please, hurry up and recall one thing from your memories that you could write about. Just 
how many of those could there be? Somebody you dated somewhere, or a confession from 
someone." 

None. 

I was about to say, but I stopped with my mouth half-open. Seeing that, Koizumi's smile grew 
wider. 

"There is something? Yes, of course there is. Along with Suzumiya-san, it's a story that I want to 
know, incidentally. Please write about that." 

Since when did you become Assistant Editor-in-Chief? You should just be diligent and go 
novelize the case of Shamisen's disappearance as well. I can decide what I'm going to write by 
myself. 

"Of course, the decision is yours. I'm simply an observer; the most I could say would be an 
adviser. I just felt like speaking on Suzumiya-san's behalf right now." 



Koizumi shrugged his shoulders, finishing up his conversation with me as he turned his 
fingertips back to his own notebook computer. 


I began thinking. 

Sorry Koizumi, but you still guessed wrong. Within your imagination, there might've been 
something about a middle-school-me having truly middle-school-student-like boy-girl relations 
whirling around, but, though I'm not proud of it, no one has ever confessed to me or anything 
like that even up to now, and I've never given one, either. My first love was my cousin Nee-chan 
whom I didn't see for years, but that Nee-chan had ended up eloping with some good-for-nothing 
guy. Though that was somewhat traumatic, it was also a long time ago. 

There have been no confessions, much less any dates. 

I gave a sigh as a scene floated on the insides of my eyelids. 

It was a scene from about a year before, when the graduation ceremony for middle school was 
ending, at that period of time just before I came into this school. With not so much as a 
mosquito's leg of thought that my high school life would be so hectic; it was the carefree, 
lethargic spring break at the end of middle school. 

Originating from the time my little sister brought the telephone receiver to my room, it was a 
short episode that was barely caught within the cracks of my brain. 

After staring up at the ceiling for a while, I lightly snorted my nose and moved my hand to the 
notebook computer's track pad. 

The screen saver flew away somewhere, and the restoration of the text editor that I had been 
neglecting brought back the white screen. 

As I sensed Koizumi making a foppish smile from the side, I tried hitting a key. 

Well, I was just breaking in my fingers. When I got bored in the middle of my writing, I 
immediately deleted the whole paragraph. 

Thinking of the task as sifting out gold dust from the deep pool of memory with a sieve, I 
transmitted the sentences I had composed in my head to my fingertips, and began writing the 
introduction. 

For the time being, let's just do this by feel. 


□ It was before I entered high school; a time when I was just passing through what remained of 
the last spring break of middle school □ 



It was before I entered high school; a time when I was just passing through what remained of the 
last spring break of middle school. 

Though I had already received my middle school diploma, I still didn't feel like I was going to be 
a high school student, and if I could, I'd keep that status forever, I remember thinking. 

As a result of being sent to private tutoring by my mother since I entered third year, getting 
through the entrance exams without a hitch was, well, easy enough. However, when I went there 
for a preliminary inspection before the exams, I thought that having to go up that slope that just 
went on and on for three years of high school would get really tedious. Come to think of it, in 
relation to the division of the school districts, I had some good friends in the municipal next to 
my neighborhood, but because they'd decided to go to far-away private schools, I felt my 
feelings of loneliness would worsen whether I liked it or not. 

At that time, I had no idea I would be meeting a strange girl as soon as high school started, and 
never saw my name getting on the member list of some bizarre brigade even in my daydreams, 
so as I looked back at my middle school days, I was somewhat anxious about the unknowns of 
high school life, which, in short, is the reason for my eagerness. 

And so, I buried that loneliness that had taken over a large part of my heart, kept sleeping 
lethargically up 'till noon, opened the game tournament that was supposedly the farewell party 

for the people going on to other high schools, then went on to watch a movie which was 

fun and all, but passing day after day like that got tiresome before long, so, after having brunch, I 
just idled away that early, pre-April afternoon in my own room like a cow. 

After sleeping, waking up, eating, and then lying on my bed to sleep again, the ringing melody of 
the house phone started up and reached my ears. 

Having no extension in my room, I left it for my mom or sister to answer, but a moment later, 
my sister came into my room carrying the cordless phone. 

It felt like she's been doing this for a while now, but whenever she came to me with the phone in 
her hand, this peculiar feeling would well up inside me. 

However, though I might be repeating myself, the me of that time was still pure, and my 
experience points were overwhelmingly insufficient. 

"Kyon-kun, phone-" 


My sister gave me a strange smile, 



Who is it? 


"It's a girl-" 

My little sister pushed the receiver to me, grinned widely, twirled her body around, and then left 
my room with a hop, step, and a jump. 

Strange. Usually, she wouldn't budge from my room until I drove her out, so why was she in 
such a hurry? 

Anyway, just who could this be? As I scrolled across the main menu in my mind for the face of 
the girl who could've called me, I pushed the talk button on the receiver. 

"Hello?" 

A moment passed, 

" Yes. Um " 

It was a girl's voice for sure. However, my search mode didn't finish as I couldn't recognize who 
it was. But it was a voice I had heard somewhere before. 

"It's me. Yoshimura Miyoko. Good afternoon. Are you feeling well right now? You 're not busy, 
are you ? " 


"Ah- 


ft 


As I started thinking, the scrolling in my head came to a complete stop. It was no surprise that 
she sounded familiar, since she was someone I had met many times. I just had difficulties 
realizing it since she had said her full name. It was Yoshimura Miyoko, nicknamed Miyokichi. 

"Ah, it's you. Yeah, I'm not busy at all. Too much free time, actually." 

"Wonderful. " 

She said with heartfelt relief, making me feel hesitant. Just what did she want with me? 

"Are you free tomorrow? The day after tomorrow is also good. But it won 't do if it goes into 
April. Would you lend me some of your time?" 

"Um, you're asking me?" (□ 1) 

"Yes. I'm sorry for saying it so suddenly. Tomorrow, or the day after tomorrow. Are you going to 
be busy?" 

"Not at all. I'm free all day for either one." 



"Wonderful. " 

She let out an honest, whispering voice that once again sounded like it had come from the bottom 
of her heart, 

"I have a favor to ask of you. " 

Miyoko shifted to a nervous voice in some way, and continued. 

"The whole day tomorrow will do. Would you please go out with me?" 

As I gazed at the gap in my door to chase after the shadow of my sister who had just left, 

"Me?" 

"Yes. " 

"With you?" 

"Yes. " 

Miyoko lowered her voice, 

"Just us two. Is this no good? " 

"Nope, there's nothing wrong with that." 

"Wonderful. " 

I heard her give an exaggerated sigh of relief again, and with a voice that sounded like she was 
working hard to restrain her cheerfulness, 

"Well then, I'll be looking forward to it. " 

I could picture Miyoko's figure bowing through the telephone line. 

After that, she proposed a time and place for the meeting, worrying about whether they were 
convenient for me, while I simply said "Got it" and went along, 

"I'm sorry. For calling so suddenly. " 

"It's okay. I wasn't doing anything, anyway." 

After responding vaguely to that girl who was modest to the end, I hung up. If I didn't end it right 
there, I was sure Miyoko would go on giving thank-you's indefinitely. Yoshimura Miyoko, 
nicknamed Miyokichi, was that kind of girl. 



To return the phone to its original location, I exited to the corridor. As soon as I did, I found my 
sister waiting there while looking giddy for some reason, so I pushed the extension onto her. 


"Nyahaha-" 

My younger sister laughed out like a fool, waving the receiver around as she went away. As I 
worried about my little sister's future, I recalled the calmness of Miyokichi's voice. (D2) 


And then, the next day. 

I don't plan on writing too much about the details. It would be troublesome to say even a single 
word. This is a story, not an activity report or a ship's log. Much less my diary or something like 
that. 

Being the writer, I will do whatever I like. I can do that, can't I? 

On that day, as I went to the appointed location, I saw that Miyokochi had arrived earlier and 
was waiting for me as I walked hurriedly to meet her. When she noticed me, she turned her face 
towards me and gave me a bow. 

"Good morning." 

After greeting me with a very thin voice, she set the sash of her hand bag on her shoulder, and 
then raised her head, making her ponytail swish around. She was wearing a light blue cardigan 
over her flower-pattern blouse, and for the bottom, she had on slim, seven-tenths length jeans. It 
suited her slender figure well. 

I gave her a "hey" as something of a return, before I slowly took in the surroundings. 

We were in front of the station. This would become familiar when we make customary use of it 
as the gathering point for the SOS Brigade. However, at this time, it would be several months 
later before I become attached to that ambiguous brigade, and I had no idea that I would be 
pushed around by my chin because of a Brigade Chief who would break into this world and reign 
supreme, so I just gazed normally around the vicinity. There should be no reason to think that 
there'd be trouble if someone were to see me and a girl meeting as a pair. Wouldn't you think that 
way, as well? (D3) 

"Um..." 

Miyokichi said with a trace of nervousness on her elegant face. 



"There's someplace I want to go to, is that okay?" 

"That's fine." 

So we went. If I didn't plan on going, then I would've just broken it off yesterday through the 
phone. And there was no reason for me to flatly refuse Miyokichi's request. 

"Thank you." 

To not make it overly polite, Miyokichi only gave one bow at a time, 

"There's a movie that I've been wanting to see." 

Of course, she didn't have to worry about it. I'll even buy her tickets. 

"There's no need for that. I will pay for myself. Since it was me who had unreasonably asked you 
to go." 

After stating it clearly, she beamed. It was what you would call a smile that knew no impurity. 
An innocent smile that differed in meaning from my little sister's. 

Incidentally, there were no movie theaters in the area. Miyokichi and I turned to the station, 
bought passes, and took the train. The movie that she wanted to see wasn't in the cinema 
complex or the big theater; since it was a minor affair of an up-and-comer, it was just out as a 
small, single-hall preview. 

At the intervals when we were shaking in the train, she would hold onto the town guide and gaze 
outside the window the whole time, but she would sometimes remember to look up at my face, 
and give a quick bow. 

It wasn't that we were both totally silent, since we did have our conversations, but I won't write 
anything about that. We just chatted about random things. I remember talking about what school 
she would be going to after that spring, and about my little sister. (□4) 

It was the same when we arrived at our station and walked to the movie theater. However, it 
seemed like she was getting a little nervous. That nervousness went on until we arrived at the 
theater and made it to the front of the ticket counter. (D5) 

Though it was almost time for the next showing to begin, the queue for the ticket counter was 
empty, showing how low the attendance for the film was. After glancing at Miyokichi, I turned 
to the glass window where an old lady seemed to be idling away, 

"Two students please." 


I said. 



After writing that much, I lifted my fingers from the keyboard, leaned back on the pipe chair, 

and stretched out widely. 

Because I wasn't that accustomed to it, it can't be helped that my shoulders went stiff. As I turned 
my head from side to side, 

"This is pretty well written, isn't it?" 

Koizumi smiled as he interestingly said, 

"Please write that way until the end. Though the truth is, I'm happy with just being allowed to 
read it at all." 

You'll regret it, Koizumi. You can bet on it. I've got to say, it won't be something you'd enjoy 
reading. It'll be far from being a romantic story. 

"Nevertheless." 

Koizumi said as he picked at the liquid crystal of his notebook computer with his finger, 

"I am intrigued by what you have written. The text should contain even a little of what the writer 
is inside, shouldn't it? The voice that we can hear oozing from between the lines is nothing less 
than the author's voice. More than Nagato-san or Asahina-san's writings, it is your story that 
makes me anxious." 

There's no need for you to trouble yourself over it. Since when did you start working as 
something other than Haruhi's mental health expert? Isn't psychoanalysing me outside of your 
duties? 

"Considering that Suzumiya-san's mental condition changes depending on you, that is something 
you can't declare unconditionally." 

You're a bastard as always. 

Dropping out of the exchange with Koizumi, I swept my gaze over the room. Haruhi had not yet 
returned, while Asahina-san was still in the middle of making her drawings. 


Hnnnn, hnnnn 



The airy upperclassman, Asahina-san, was turned toward a piece of paper with a bewildered 
expression on her face, as she childishly grasped her pencil, drew a wobbly line, erased it after a 
little thought, and then again going, 

"Hnnnn." 

Without raising her head, she continued working enthusiastically. Although Asahina-san's 
picture-book style fairy tale has already been introduced, she, at the time, was actually just 
starting it. Looking at the finished product, you could really say that her efforts were fruitful. It 
had become a work that was very much in character with Asahina-san. 

And accordingly, for the one who had already finished her own work, 


At the end of the table, Nagato was quietly reading a book in her usual spot. After submitting 
that untitled super-short trilogy, the light-and-slight-as-can-be Literature Club member had 
completely zoned the cheerfully-skipping-about Haruhi and the groaning Asahina-san and I out, 
making the effort to read as soundlessly as she could. 

If it were up to me, I would at least request some author's notes for Untitled 1, 2, and 3 from 
Nagato, but I somehow felt like it would be better not to ask for anything; what I should be 
worrying about right now is the "Romance Story" that I had just started. Though I had busted my 
gut writing that, 

"It's boring. Rejected." 

With that single word, I would not have been able to do anything had she summarily tossed them 
straight into the garbage. However, writing something while thinking about what would please 
Haruhi would also irritate me. Why can't I just forget about her when it's such a useless thing? 

As I was starting to get more and more angry, the refreshing smile came again from the side, 

"That's not true, is it?" 

It seems like he's rebuking my soliloquy. As Koizumi continued his touch-typing without lifting 
a finger from the notebook computer, 

"If you wrote a document about a past experience, from before you met me or Suzumiya-san, I 
feel that Suzumiya-san would be interested in reading it." 

Being able to write while having a conversation is no mean feat, but how can you be so sure? 
"For example." 


Koizumi seemed to get somewhat happier, 



"Haven't you thought about wanting to know about my past? What I was doing and where I was 
before I transferred to this school, or what I think about as I pass the days by; don't you feel like 
getting a glimpse of that?" 

Well, you If you tell me which one it is, I'd like to hear it. If it's a nonfiction piece about the 

daily life of an esper, then I'd be jumping with excitement to read it, if I were still a grade school 
student. What happens within the □ Organization □ as an institution, is something that stimulates 
my intellectual curiosity even now. 

"Even if you do get to know it, you will just be disappointed. It won't be a very interesting 
episode. As you also know, I am an esper who is restricted by place and time." 

Koizumi went on saying, 

"However, it is certain that I pass my ordinary days different from ordinary people. Someday, 
when things have cooled down, I'll think about whether I should write my autobiography. If I do 
write one, I'll put your name in the dedication." 

"You don't have to." 

"Is that so? In that case, I would certainly think about giving you a complimentary copy, at 
least." 

Without answering, I stretched out my hand to ask for tea. The teacup in my hand was already 
empty. Since Asahina-san was devoted to working on her picture book, I had no choice but to 
bring in a second cup by myself, and as I stood up to do so, 

Bang, the clubroom door opened, letting in the authoritative girl. 

"What's up, everyone? How's everything going?" 

With strangely high tension, Haruhi walked hastily into the clubroom and took her seat at the 
Brigade Chiefs chair, then after tossing a bundle of paper at her desk, she turned to me with a 
mysterious light in her eyes. 

"Ah, Kyon, if you're bringing out tea, then get me one too, please. Mikuru-chan is in the middle 
of her work, and I'd hate to interrupt." 

There was no way I'd awkwardly oppose her like a stinking kid for this. As my little symbol of 
defiance, I gave a sigh upon hearing her, before I poured hot water into the teapot, filled up 
Haruhi's cup and mine with tea, then turned into a temporary waiter as I brought them to the 
Brigade Chief's seat. 

Haruhi was in a good mood as she took a sip from the teacup, 


What's this? It's just hot, light-brown colored water. Change the tea leaves, the tea leaves! 



You do it. I'm busy. 


Since I was, in fact, busy, this much mutiny should be forgivable, even if the chief would be 
grateful. You can't say that serving tea is a higher priority than making the club journal. 

"Hmm?" 

Haruhi grinned widely, 

"You wrote something, did you? Finally? Well done, well done. Just in time for the deadline. It 
wouldn't do if we didn't go into the layout work soon." 

As I sipped on the tea that I had poured myself, I searched for the source of Haruhi's good mood. 
For some reason, it seems like the pile of A4 sheets that she had dropped at her desk was the 
main cause. 

"This?" 

As Haruhi sharply sniffed out my gaze, 

"These are the completed manuscripts. From the people I had commissioned. Everyone really did 
their best. But since Taniguchi said he couldn't write no matter what, I gave him an extension 
until tomorrow. And Kunikida was half-done. They're diligent, so they should be submitting 
them tomorrow." 

As she hummed, Haruhi plucked each sheet one by one to check through the manuscript, 

"This is the illustration I had requested from the Manga Club, and this one is the rough sketch of 
the front cover I had requested from the Art Club. And these are from the guys at the Computer 
Club. It seems like they worked on so many pages. What they wrote was pretty bland, but, well, 
that's okay. Their enthusiasm shines through, and if people who understand this read it, they'll 
find it interesting, I'm sure." 

Indeed. In short, it seems like she's found happiness in the steady advancement of the creation of 
the club journal. Making a tangible thing from nothing, the process as we steadily approach 
completion, is something that even I find enjoyable. It's sort of like assembling a plastic model, 
or being on the path that brings you to the last boss in an RPG. That should be fun. I've never 
been in the situation of a plastic model part or non-player character, myself. 

"What are you mumbling about?" 

Haruhi gulped up her tea in an instant, and as she toyed with her cup, she showed me a satisfied 
smile, 



"Hurry up and get back to your seat, and like, keep writing. With the outsiders from the 
Computer Club working hard like this, you're looking bad with your reputation for goofing-off. 
By all rights, this is a match we had accepted ourselves, after all." 

Haruhi was in high spirits from having found a rival organization that was formidable. To get her 
mad, I almost wanted to tell her about the Student Council President's true character right then. I 
wanted to talk about it while I had the chance. About the false charge he had set against Nagato 
being a Literature Club member in the beginning, so that you, being a curious onlooker that had 
suddenly rushed in from the side, would end up taking leadership somehow. Until you put on 
that Editor-in-Chief armband. 

I glared at Koizumi's profile, and started thinking about what chapter we were on in the 
confusing plans for Haruhi's boredom. With the lone island definitely being the first, was the 

jinxed snow mountain the second part? No, wait, there was Kimidori-san's kamadouma or 

was that Nagato's? 

As I reminisced about that nonsense, a knocking sound echoed in my ear. 

"Pardon the interruption." 

Opening the door without waiting for a reply, the tall figure invaded the clubroom. 

Pi-king . 

I was probably the only one who heard the sound that was like piano wire being cut by a nipper. 
Just like the mid-boss of a shooting game, the Student Council President had suddenly appeared. 
And behind him to his side was Kimidori-san. 

The President was in diligent mode with his glasses sparkling meaninglessly, and as his eyes 
slowly traveled the room, 

"This clubroom is pretty good. More and more, I'm thinking that it is being wasted on you." 

"What did you come here for? Did you come back to get in the way of our work?" 

Haruhi switched to bad tempered mode faster than a special effects hero's transformation. 

Folding her arms as self-importantly as the President, she stayed right in her seat. 

The President met Haruhi's murderous look attack head on, 

"Think of it as observing the enemy's movements. I have no intentions of becoming your 
perennial foe and a wall that you'd have to climb over. Though I only came to see the situation, I 
have a responsibility since I presented the requirements. To confirm whether you were working 
diligently or not, I had thought about making the rounds. Hmm. From what I've seen, it seems 



like you've been pretty busy with your work. That's all well and good, but you don't always see 
the amount of effort translate directly into results. Let's just say that you should never ever 
neglect your diligence." 

Though I wanted to say it myself, the Brigade Chief (presently, the Editor-in-Chief) responded 
ahead of me. 

"Shuddup." 

Kyururi. It was like I heard the sound effect for Haruhi's eyes transforming into inverted acute 
triangles. 

"If you came here to be sarcastic, then tough luck. I won't fire any comebacks at such a weak 
opening." 

"I don't have that much free time." 

The President snapped his finger in a forced gesture. Though he looked like he was going to 
shout "Garmon!" anytime now, the shrewd Student Council President was not calling for a server, 

"Kimidori-kun, the things." 

"Yes, Mister President." 

Kimidori-san held up the bundle of booklets she had been carrying in her arms, and advanced 
gracefully in front of Haruhi. 

Turning her eyes back to the pages of the hard-cover she had on her lap, Nagato kept perfectly 
still. 


While Kimidori-san's smile widened, giving the impression that she had not even noticed 
Nagato, 

"Here you go. Reference materials." 

She presented the multitude of musty old booklets to Haruhi. 

"What's this?" 

Haruhi didn't hide the annoyance in her face, but since she was someone who would take 
anything you gave her even if it were cursed, she nevertheless accepted the old booklets, and 
raised her brows conspicuously. 


As the President toyed with his glasses in a cynical gesture, 



"Those are journals that the old Literature Club had produced. Use it as a reference as much as 
you can. Considering how you think up such distinctive theories, there was a likelihood that you 
would misconstrue what literature, as a word, means. No need to thank me. If you feel any 
obligation, then turn it towards Kimidori-kun. The one who took the trouble to look around the 
bookshelves in the archive room was her." 

"Hmm, thanks. Though that doesn't really make me happy." 

Wearing a face like the feudal lord of Kainokuni who had been given salt even though they 
weren't running short, Haruhi dropped the bundle of booklets on the Chiefs desk with a thud, 
and then, looking like she had found what the messenger's face was reminding her of for the first 
time, 





The President snapped his finger in a forced gesture. Kimidori-san held up the bundle of booklets she had 
been carrying in her arms, and advanced gracefully in front of Haruhi. 

"Oh, you Eh, you're in the Student Council?" 

"Yes. Just this year." 

Kimidori-san replied gently, gave a bow, and then returned to the Student Council President's 
side with graceful steps. Haruhi, like she couldn't care less, 

"How's your boyfriend doing?" 

The boyfriend Haruhi mentioned was no other than the Computer Club President. 

"I'm really grateful for that time." 



Kimidori-san's smile didn't waver one bit, 


"But, we've already broken up. Thinking about it now, it feels like we really didn't have much of 
a relationship from the start; it's all a distant memory." 

Even though she had answered in a roundabout way, I had a hunch that I knew the reason. I'm 
sure the Computer Club President would also agree with me. He wasn't even aware they were 
going out. He was only getting punished for checking something like the SOS Brigade site. Well, 
it was somewhat pitiable, I guess. 


Nagato flipped to the next page of her book. 

At that point in time, it felt like Nagato and Kimidori-san were having an Actively-Ignore-the- 
Other-Person Battle with each other. However, since Nagato was usually like that whoever the 
other person was, it was probably just me. Most recently, it felt like I had been made to wear 
strange-colored glasses. 

"Hmm, is that so?" 

Haruhi made a funny shape with her mouth, 

"Well, you're young. Lots of things happen." 

So you say, but you're even younger 1 had no plan on throwing such a vulgar comeback. 

Ignorance was the standard here. Besides, Kimidori-san's real age was probably about the same 
as Nagato's. It was doubtful whether she had seniority. Could she have been a second-year 
student just by chance, I thought. 

However, we can't talk about something like that right now. Judging from Nagato's response, 
Kimidori-san was not an enemy. I nonchalantly studied Asahina-san from the corner of my eyes. 
She had known that Nagato was an alien officer despite her slightness. Her astonishment when 
she was first brought here showed that. If I were to sense that she was that worried again, then 
that would justify the racing of my heart. 

However . 

"Hmm, ah. Err, huh-hmm." 

That lovely upperclassman, in all her fuss as she drew her picture book with all her heart, did not 
even notice the two intruders that had come into the clubroom, it seems. Should I be admiring 
her powers of concentration, or should I be worried about how she was steadily getting closer to 
being the dojikkol If it's the latter, then that's just the result of Haruhi's training. 



In the time that I was standing there blankly, Haruhi and the President had been trading verbal 
attacks back and forth. 


"It seems like you've been working on the story digest." 

The President said with a nihilistic voice. 

"But can you really write anything decent?" 

"I'll keep saying it as many times as I need. Tough luck." 

Came Haruhi's resolute voice. 

"I'm not worried one bit." 

Haruhi wore a face that was so full of confidence, I wanted to investigate which wormhole it was 
all springing from, 

"You don't have to teach us or anything; writing a story is simple. Even this stupid Kyon can do 
it. Because, most people can write characters, can't they? If you can write characters, then you 
can write sentences, and then you can just connect those sentences. You don't need any special 
training to write characters. We're already high school students. So there's no need for something 
like practice when you're making a story. You just have to write." 

The President slid his glasses up, 

"I can't help but admire the optimism of your viewpoint. However, that's just too childish." 

Though I generally have the same opinion, I wish he was a little more discreet about stirring up 
Haruhi. Even if that line was assigned to someone like the President, all of us here would have to 
bask in Haruhi's burning aura. 

Sure enough, Haruhi's eyebrows rose steadily until they were shaped like sharp knives, 

"I don't know how big you think you are. But! Even if you really were all that, I really hate 
people who think so high of themselves. And if you act that way even though you're actually no 
good, then that's even worse!" 

If it's a mouth-off, then she's someone who doesn't get left behind. The way things stand, it 
seems like they'll just fling words at each other indefinitely. At any rate, the President seemed 
more self-important than Haruhi. Though this was just another performance, acting cool while 
Haruhi was burning with anger nearby was no small feat. The President, and Kimidori-san, as 
well. 

"Mm. Even if I was not particularly important. You are measuring a human being on whether or 
not he's proud, aren't you? If I had something to be proud of, it would be that I am in this position 



as the result of a fair election. And so, how did you come to be sitting on that seat? Oh, 
honorable Brigade Chief?" 

As expected, I should tell Koizumi that he'd chosen a real man of talent; this President was the 
owner of one thick core. A person who could face Haruhi and grandly make sarcastic jabs; there 
must be no one else in this school but him. 

However, Haruhi is the best at being Haruhi. I'm the one who's saying it, so it's no mistake. 
"There's no use in provoking me." 

Instead of getting angry, the boss of an illegal organization within the school let loose an 
ominous smile. 

"The Student Council might want to destroy the SOS Brigade at the same time as the Literature 
Club, but you won't be able to." 

Haruhi gave me a quick glance. What's with those eyes? 

Her sparkling pupils immediately moved to pierce the President. 

"Because I will absolutely not move from here. Do you want me to tell you why?" 

"By all means," the President said. 

Haruhi, if her voice were made of microwaves, spoke with a volume that made me feel like it 
was more efficient than any kind of microwave oven. 

"Because this is the SOS Brigade's clubroom, and the SOS Brigade is mine!" 

She said what she had wanted to say, and after having said what he had wanted to say to Haruhi, 
the President, and Kimidori-san who was accompanying him, left. 

"Ooh, how irritating. What did he come here for anyway, that Stupid President." 

Haruhi pouted her lips while grumbling, and flipped through the pages of the old Literature Club 
journals that Kimidori-san had brought. 

Because of Haruhi's war cry, Asahina-san had finally noticed that visitors had come, and though 
she was about to prepare tea in a panic, it was already too late, but thanks to that, I was finally 
able to refresh my heart with Asahina-san's delicious tea, and I could make progress with my 
writing nope, didn't happen. 

For some reason, once my spirit was dampened, I also lost my will. More so, because, of the 
theme that was decided through lottery, and my own past episode. 



But I can't talk about that, either. Haruhi's morale, which had been set ablaze by the President's 
appearance, had now ended up burning the clubroom up to the ceiling. 


"Okay, everyone." 

Haruhi opened her mouth like a duck's and said, 

"Now that it's come to this, we'll make that Club Journal even if we have to die, and even more, 
we'll make it so amazing that it'll sell out. We will not spare even one copy, and take down the 
Student Council. Got it?!" 

A Club Journal is something you distribute, not sell, and though I wouldn't mind dying for 
something like that, even if I don't die for violating the deadline, it seems like I'll be subjected to 
punishment games until death. Really, even though it's his role, isn't the President overdoing it? 
And Koizumi too; is this an occasion for you to be wearing such a satisfied smile? 

"As for me," Koizumi whispered to me as he usually did. "I am exceedingly satisfied. Because as 
long as Suzumiya-san's eyes are turned towards routinary occurrences, I can stay outside those 
spaces of ours." 

That's fine by you, I guess. But what happens to me then? I just wish they would forgive us for 
rushing into a school conflict with the Student Council. Though I knew that the President was 
just pretending, Haruhi, who didn't know, had no idea what she had just started. Should we be 
unable to pass the President's conditions for making the club journal this time, Haruhi wouldn't 
just obediently surrender the clubroom. If I'm going to be besieged in a place like this, I wouldn't 
want to end up being held responsible for provisions. 

"You're thinking about it too much. What we need to focus on right now is completing the club 
journal. Then it'll happen somehow. If it doesn't " 

In that gently smiling face, a scheming expression suddenly appeared, 

"Let's start another scenario. A siege battle; that would also be good." 

According to Tsuruya-san's perceptive eyes, the Student Council President gave off a feeling like 
Shiba Chuutatsu, but for her, I wonder who would be Koizumi's match? Someone like Kuroda 
Kanbe? 

As I was feeling like the lord of Takamatsu Castle when their water supply had been cut off, I 
prayed that Koizumi, who seemed like he had an aspiration for campus conspiracies, wasn't 
serious about hatching that scheme. 



As it turns out, I was not able to complete my manuscript that day. Since the time the intruders 
had entered, I wasn't able to progress by even one character. 


Fortunately, when Haruhi had finished checking my manuscript so far, she left the clubroom in a 
rush. Did she think of a new outside source, or did she set off to give out pep talks ? 

Haruhi returned just in time as the chime signaling the end of the school day had started, and 
Nagato closed her book right then in perfect harmony. Like Koizumi, who was making good 
progress on his writing, and Asahina-san, who was industriously doing her best, I stood up with 
my bag in hand. 

Contrary to my expectations, Haruhi did not tell us to bring our notebook computers home and 
continue writing there. Though she might have just forgotten because of her seething anger, I 
was still grateful. 

Next year, if a first-year student who wanted to join the Literature Club were to appear, would 

that person be automatically included in the SOS Brigade was what I thought about on the 

route that everyone takes on the way home from school, as my body was hit by a cold breeze that 
seemed like it had come down from a mountain, though I was sure it was just the breath of 
spring, until I arrived at home. 

With that, it was after school the next day when I started writing the continuation of my 
autobiography-like story. 

Let's see, how far was I able to write? Ah yes, up to the point where I was buying tickets. 

Well then, let's resume from there. 


After being admitted without a hitch, Miyokichi and I went to our seats in the middle of the 
single-hall theater; it was hardly what you would call spacious. Regarding how small the 
attendance was, the number of people entering was so sparse that it was virtually empty. 

As for the kind of movie, it was one of those gory horrors. To be honest, it wasn't a genre that I 
liked very much, but just for that day, I couldn't help but listen to her wishes. At any rate, her 
tastes didn't seem to fit her quiet looks. Did she really want to see it that much? 

During the show, she turned into an eager movie fan as she showed an appreciation for the 
screen, but here and there, during the scary scenes that were characteristic of horror films, she 



meekly gave a little start, turned her face away, and grabbed my arm once, which calmed me 
down for some reason. 


But other than that, her eyes were glued to the images, and she looked so serious that if they 
were to see her with that much concentration, even the film makers would be satisfied. 

At first glance, if I were to reveal my impressions of the film point-blank, it would go something 
like "This is a B-movie, isn't it?" which is something I couldn't just say. Though I don't think I 
lost anything by watching it, I didn't gain anything, either. I couldn't even recall learning 
anything from advanced reviews at all; they must not have done much work on their advertising. 

Why could she have picked this movie? 

I asked her, 

"An actor that I like appears in it." 

She replied with a bit of embarrassment. 

The ending credits hadn't finished scrolling when the curtains closed, and we exited the theater. 

It was past noon by then. Are we also going for lunch somewhere? Just when I was thinking if it 
was time to go home, she said in a voice that sounded nothing but humble, 

"There's a shop that I want to go see, but is that okay with you?" 

When I looked at her, she was circling the corner of the open page on her guide book with a red 
pen. The store was in an area that we could walk to from here. 

After I considered it a bit, 

"It's decided, then." 

I answered, and started walking according to the simple map printed on the magazine page. As 
silent as ever, she walked diagonally behind me. We must have talked about a few things, but I 
don't really remember. 


After walking for a while, we arrived at a cozy-looking tea shop. Seeing the stylish facade and 
interior, it seemed like it would take an extraordinary amount of courage for a guy to enter by 
himself; he'd feel like a fish out of water. I had unconsciously frozen at the front of the store, but 
when I came to look up at Miyokichi's worried face, it felt natural as I pushed on the manually- 
opening wooden doors. 



As I had expected, most of the customers occupying the store were girls. It was spectacular. For 
some reason, I felt relieved at how many mixed couples there were. 

The waitress who had led us to our seats, looked at Miyokichi and me with a smile, brought 
glasses of water with a smile, and finally asked for our order with a smile. 

After scanning the menu for thirty seconds, I ordered a Neapolitan and an iced coffee, while she 
got the deluxe cake set. It seems like she had decided on what to order from the beginning, From 
among the ten types of cake the waitress had brought as samples, she pointed at the Mont Blanc 
without hesitation. 

"You're okay with just the cake set?" 

I expectedly asked. 

"Won't you still be hungry with just that?" 

"No, I’ll be okay." 

She straightened her back, put her hands on her knees, and said with a tense face. 

"I don't eat much." 

Was her unexpected response. Maybe because I had been looking at her steadily, she lowered her 
face. Panicking, I rushed to explain myself, and felt that way until I had succeeded in getting her 
to smile again. Thinking about it now, I said such embarrassing things that it had made me sweat. 
It would be useless to write something like, uh, she was totally cute just as she was. But, 
Miyokichi was indeed a beautiful girl. I would think that about half of the boys in her class must 
be enamored with her. 

Once they had arrived, she took about thirty minutes to nibble on her Mont Blanc and sip her 
Darjeeling Tea. As for me, I finished my meal quickly; it took just enough time for the ice in my 
iced coffee to melt. 

I had quite some time in my hands, but I still couldn't understand her, and as I threw some 

random subjects at her, she would just nod or shake her head Well, considering it now, I 

don't think I paid that much attention to it. I was just a bundle of sensitivity back then. And 
probably all nervous. 


I was going to pay for the tea shop bill. But she wouldn't listen, insisting to the end that she 
would pay for her own share. 


Because I'm the one who wanted to go out today. 



She said as her point. 


Having finished settling our accounts, we started walking around in the bright sunlight. After the 
horror movie, and that gorgeous little tea shop, where did she want to go next? Or was it time for 
her to go home? 


As we strolled, she went silent for a long while. And some time later, 
"There is this one last place " 

The place she revealed in a small voice, was my home. 


After all of that, I took her back to my home, and with my little sister, who seemed like she had 
been waiting for us to arrive, the three of us played games together. 


"Phew." 

Having written that much, I stopped my fingers. 

The only other people in the room were Koizumi and Nagato. Haruhi was running around as 
usual, while Asahina-san went out to the Art Club for a final check on her drawings. 

As I scrolled to the beginning of the article I had written, Koizumi's face came into my field of 
vision from the side. 

"Have you written to the end? Or is there more?" 

"No idea " 

I answered, but despite what I said, it felt like that was enough. If you think about it, what was 
the point of writing that stuff so diligently? For the Literature Club's sake, and, by extension, for 

Nagato's sake you could be enthusiastic about that, but it was all just a way for the SOS 

Brigade to continue keeping this clubroom as its headquarters, and just one part of the plan to 
alleviate Haruhi's boredom. With Koizumi pulling the strings behind the curtains, the president, 
who held abuse of authority deep within his gut, was Koizumi's pseudo-puppet. So to speak, this 
case was just one big roundabout put-up job. 



At the same time, I had a feeling that Koizumi was hoping to avoid the second stage turning into 
all-out war against the Student Council. But mostly, it was Nagato who was at the forefront. I 
think I would want her to enjoy a peaceful student life as much as she could. I'd like to believe 
that I'm not the only one whose heart is set at peace when gazing at Nagato quietly reading a 
book in a corner of that clubroom. 

"Well, that's fine, isn't it?" 

Setting my jaw, I showed it to Koizumi. 

"Before I show it to Haruhi, I want to hear your opinion. So read it." 

"Then I shall read it, gladly." 

As I looked at the thoroughly-absorbed Koizumi's face, I manipulated my touch pad. 

The notebook computers that had been provided to Brigade Members were connected through a 
LAN, with the desktop computer on the Brigade Chiefs desk acting as the server. With a little 
fiddling around, I was able to initiate the printer that had been placed in a corner of the 
clubroom, and it began spitting out the printed-on sheets. 


A few minutes later. 

Koizumi smiled after he finished reading, and made his comments. 

"Well, I thought I was the one who was supposed to work on the mystery assignment." 
As I had thought, was he able to see it? 

"What do you mean?" 

I said, feigning ignorance. 

"I wasn't intending to write something like a mystery." 

Koizumi's smile widened more and more, 

"And there's another problem. It also didn't turn out romantic." 


If that was the case, then what did I write? 



This is just bragging. About how you went out on a date with a cute girl. 


I guess that's how it is if you read it normally. However, Koizumi. You must have noticed 
something else. In which part did you get suspicious? 

"From the beginning. It was obvious, the way you made it. It's impossible to say that it isn't 
suspicious." 

Koizumi set the manuscript in order, picked up a ball pen, and then started putting marks on 
some sheets. They were U marks. That is, he was the one who put in the (□) marks above. 

"You're a pretty generous person, aren't you? You put in several clues one after the other. Even 
the most thickheaded readers should be able to see up to (4 □ )." 

As I kept acting like I didn't know anything, I clicked my tongue, and turned to the side. I 
thought that by looking at Nagato's unmoving figure, I could calm my heart down. Though my 
eyes were set at ease, Koizumi dealt a final blow to my ears. 

"The way it stands, isn't it missing the conclusion? Therefore, I have a proposal. Why don't you 
add one or two lines after this? The part that will give out the secret, so to speak. That shouldn't 
take a lot of work." 

As I had thought, it'll be better that way, huh? 

I resented having to follow Koizumi's advice, but at that moment, I had felt like I should just 
listen to him. If it's about psychoanalyzing Haruhi, then this guy's the expert. 

But, wait a sec? Why should I be worried about Haruhi's book review? She was the one who had 
brought up that nonsense about writing a romance story, but the one who actually had to do that 
nonsense was me, the same as Asahina-san and Nagato. If we're going to assign blame here, it 
should be on Haruhi, who had arbitrarily taken the position of Editor-in-Chief. 

As I gazed at the liquid crystal display, Koizumi let out a chuckle. 

"I don't think you have anything to worry about. Since I could recognize, it's unlikely that 
Suzumiya-san wouldn't. Before you could get to cross-examining ah." 

Koizumi reached into his blazer pocket. It was sounding off like an insect buzzing. 

"Excuse me for a sec." 

Koizumi pulled out his cell phone and took a glance at the screen, 

"It seems I have some minor business to attend to. I'll be stepping out for a bit. No, you can 
relax. It's just a report I have to make regularly, not one of those cases." 



As if to support those words, Koizumi kept a smile on his face as he left the clubroom. Contrary 
to expectations, could he, himself, be going out to meet some schoolgirl somewhere, in the 
shadows? Considering how clever Koizumi is, it wouldn't be strange if he's been doing 
something so normal in some place we didn't know about. 

And so, that left only me and Nagato, who was still immersed in her reading. 

Nagato never lifted her face. I felt like I should say something, but I was lost in the middle of my 
thoughts. Should I just accept it and write in that unnecessary addition? 

In that silence, I closed the file for the pseudo-romance story that I had written, and opened up a 
new text file. A pure white screen was displayed on my monitor. 

For the time being, shall we see what I could write? As Koizumi had said, let's finish it in two 
lines. 

I hit the keys with a tak-tak-tak, and since my revision wasn't at all lengthy, I put in the 
command to print it as it was. 

As I gave the sheet of paper that had come out of the printer a thorough look, I had wanted to just 
go and delete the whole paragraph. This is no good. It'd be embarrassing even if it were a folk- 
tale. 

I folded up the sheet that had ended up becoming my closing page, and stuffed it inside the inner 
pocket of my uniform's blazer. 

Then, at that same moment, 

"Taniguchi ran away again. Tomorrow, he'll be writing even if I have to tie him up. You too, 
Kyon. If you don't complete it soon, the Editor-in-Chief is gonna get angry." 

Haruhi had entered the room. 

And then my manuscript, which Koizumi had left on top of the table, caught her eye. 


No, wait! I pleaded in vain as Haruhi plundered the printed-out sheets with god-like speed. She 
then sat down in her own desk, and started reading slowly. 


My thoughts were split between "Oh god" and "I hope I get a swift death so I can go get myself 
reincarnated quickly" as I watched our power-mongering Editor-in-Chiefs face. 



Haruhi was grinning widely at the beginning, turned expressionless somewhere in the middle, 
though her expression had faded away as she passed through a number of sheets, and when she 
finished reading the last page, her expression changed again. 

Oh my, how unusual. I never knew I had it in me to make Haruhi's jaw drop. 

"That's it?" 

I nodded quietly. 

Nagato was saying nothing as she kept her eyes fixed on a page of her open book. Asahina-san 
was out somewhere. Koizumi had left for some reason. There was no human being anywhere 
who would give Haruhi any unnecessary information. 

And so . 

After dropping my manuscript on her desk, she turned to face me again. 

And, she was smiling in a way that I didn't like. The same way Koizumi did. 

"And where's the conclusion?" 

"What conclusion?" 

I played dumb. 

Haruhi smiled so sweetly that it was eerie, 

"There's no way it ends with that, right? And that Miyokichi girl, what happened to her after 
that?" 

"Who knows, maybe she's living happily somewhere?" 

"Liar! Who are you trying to kid?" 

Haruhi joined her hands on Brigade Chiefs desk, and just like that, she jumped over the desk and 
soared toward me. In no time at all, she had grabbed me by my necktie. That idiotically strong 
girl; was she trying to choke me? 

"If you want me to release you, then start talking! And be honest!" 

"What should I be honest about? It's a story. And a fiction at that. The I that's written here isn't 
me, it's just a character in the first-person perspective story that I wrote. And so is Miyokichi." 

Haruhi's smiling face drew closer and closer, and she held my neck with more and more power. 
This is bad; I really am in danger of suffocating. 



"Just you keep lying." 

Haruhi continued in an overly refreshing tone, 

"From the beginning, I never thought you could write a whole made-up story. At most, you 
might've been able to transcribe something you remember hearing from someone you know. By 
my intuition, I can tell that what I read here was based on a true story. And that it's yours." 

Flaruhi's eyes sparkled glaringly. 

"So who's Miyokichi? What kind of relationship did you have with her?" 

As my necktie got tighter and tighter, I finally confessed the truth. 

"She occasionally comes to my house and eats dinner before going home." 

"That's all? Don't you have something more to say?" 

I reflexively checked the chest of my blazer. That action was enough for Haruhi to notice. 

"AHA! So you've hidden the rest of the manuscript there, huh? Hand it over!" 

Just how sharp was her nose? I couldn't help but feel a sense of admiration. However, just as I 
was about to speak my words of praise, Haruhi had went on and resorted to force. 

As I was struggling, she thrust her right leg between my thighs and executed, as I remembered 
from somewhere, a brilliant inside leg trip. 

"Umph!" I lifelessly raised my voice. 

Putting all her weight on my body, Haruhi then pushed me down to the floor. Haruhi rode me 
like a horse, getting in the mount position. She was trying to slip her hands inside my blazer. But 
I still resisted somehow. 

"Yuki, lend me a hand here! Go grab Kyon's hands!" 

As she said that, Haruhi had started taking my blazer off. Hey hey hey, shouldn't you be ashamed 
of yourself!? Is stripping Asahina-san not enough for you, you perverted girl!? 

"Hey! Stop it!" 

I turned to Nagato as my eyes sought help, but when I confronted her delicately expressionless 
face, I got the impression that she was puzzling about what she should do. 


Before I knew it, Nagato had opened the cover of her computer. 



From when was that again? Since she had the skill to hack into the Computer Club's computer 
and rewrite their program, peeking into my computer would be an easy victory for her. But, 
umm, what would she see? 


Nagato didn't help either of us, and just watched over me and Haruhi's ground battle with calm 
eyes. 

And then, after that, 

"I'm back EHHH!?" 

Enter Asahina-san. She sure has perfect timing. Just what was she thinking when she saw me on 
my back, and then Haruhi on top of me as she continued her reverse sexual harassment, 

"I, I'm s, sorry! I didn't see anything! Honest!" 

She shouted misguidedly as she ran away. 


While Nagato kept waiting watchfully. 

"Didn't you hear what the Editor-in-Chief said? Now, hand it over!" 

And Haruhi smiled ferociously. 

As Haruhi handled me with both hands while in the guard position, a prayer went out from my 
heart. 

Koizumi, you're the only one I can rely on, now! Hurry back! 


About that last sheet that had been printed. Besides being hidden in the inside pocket of my 
blazer, this was what was written on it. 


By the way, Yoshimura Miyoko, nicknamed Miyokichi, was my little sister's classmate, as well 
as her best friend, and at that time, she was a ten-year-old, fourth- year student in Grade School. 




IP 

Enter Asahina-san. She sure has perfect timing. Just what was she thinking when she saw me on my 
back, and then Haruhi on top of me... 

Even one year ago, Miyokichi had such an adult-like appearance, that you wouldn't think she 
was my little sister's classmate. Her height made me skeptical about how she could be a light 
eater, her figure was good, the expressions you would suddenly see on her were good, and it was 
all at such an extent that she looked about as grown-up as Asahina-san. With such un-grade- 
school-student-like looks, the person at the ticket booth of the movie theater and the part-time 
ticket collector would probably overlook it. 

Though even if they did notice it, it would be a question of whether she would be stopped each 
time. They'd sell you tickets at the student price even if you don't present your student ID. 

The movie that we went to see had received a PG-12 designation due to the Eirin. That is to say, 
it was required for children younger than twelve to be accompanied by a guardian. I was okay, 
since I had already turned fifteen. 

The problem was Miyokichi. Even though she knew perfectly well that her own appearance 
couldn't be seen as less than twelve. 

However, she couldn't bring herself to go alone. Since her parents were relatively conservative in 
character, they wouldn't understand a gory, B-grade horror movie, and she'd be told off if she 
said she wanted to go see it was the explanation I heard from her. 

But the only friend she could invite was my own little sister, whom you couldn't see in anything 
but early grade school, even up to now. The movie's showing would be for most of that March, 
and then it ends. She would lose her chance to see it if she didn't hurry. 



So she thought through it. Which person could she go together with that they were likely to sell 
tickets to, normally? 


That was me. 

I've always been fond of small children from a long time ago, if I do say so myself. With most of 
my cousins being younger than me, I think it became a habit after being made to look after 
everyone when we were all gathered in the countryside. 

Of course, having to deal with my little sister's friends was an everyday occurrence. Among 
those was Miyokichi, so she also knew me pretty well. 

The big brother of a friend who was always in the house where she often went to play, and a guy 
who seemed to have a lot of free time during spring break. It turned out that I was someone who 
came to mind as being in the circle of friends of some fourth graders. 

She thought that way as well. On the occasion of that movie, it also comes as a place that would 
be difficult for a kid to enter alone. And along those lines, she had selected that tea shop. The 
waitress at that time turned out to be pretty pleasant. It was a shop that a grade schooler standing 
on her tiptoes would feel awkward to enter alone, and even I, as a Middle School student, still 
felt nervous in that position. With Miyokichi and me at that tea shop. Even from the eyes of 
outsiders, we couldn't have been seen as anything but brother and sister. 

Currently in fifth grade, and soon to be sixth grade, Miyokichi, Yoshimura Miyoko. If you wait 
five more years, you just might become a rival for Asahina-san. 

Though somewhere, at Haruhi's look, I had stopped talking. 


And now, it will be the post-fin from here. 

We managed to finish the Club Journal by the deadline. It was just a booklet printed on copy 

paper that we stuck together with a gigantic, industrial-sized stapler, but as for the 

content removing any bias I may have you could say that it was fairly substantial. 

Of particular excellence, was the Adventure Story that Tsuruya-san had written. Every single one 
who read her romp of a short story entitled "Hard Cheese! The Tragedy of Boy N" had to hold 
his side in laughter. I, myself, had laughed so hard that tears came out. That there was such an 

amusing tale in this world 1 had this feeling for a long time after that. The only one who 

read it and didn't even move a muscle on her face was Nagato, but that slapstick story in 
Tsuruya-san's lively writing style was so funny, that I wondered if even Nagato would secretly 
read it in her own room and let out a few giggles. 



Though I've thought about this a little, I felt again that it was true. Could she be some kind of 
genius? That person. 


As for the other SOS Brigade affiliates, there were things like the terrible and uninteresting days 
essay written by Taniguchi, Kunikida's trivia-like study column, four-panel comics drawn by 
someone in the Manga Club; thanks to Haruhi eagerly running everywhere to commission 
writers and demand manuscripts, it had turned into something that was plenty thick for a 
Literature Club journal, and though it took some time and effort to bundle and staple each copy, 
the two hundred copies we prepared sold well in one day without us having to do any 
advertising. Maybe all of Haruhi's running around for outsourcing had inadvertently turned into 
advanced publicity, I thought. 

But that Haruhi, after saying "I'm gonna write something, too!" only contributed a short piece 
aside from the self-important editorial postscript. 

Entitled "Save the world by Overloading it with fun: Section One □ A Memo on the Formulae 
for Looking at Tomorrow," the article was loaded with figures or symbols which, according to 
Haruhi's explanation, are to be considered for the perpetual continuation of the SOS Brigade, and 
though that just seems like something she would say, I, at least, could not make any sense out of 
the text. 

Order in chaos, is a figure of speech that expresses this uncertainty, and while it carries with it 
the impression that the contents of Haruhi's head had just spilled out on it, so to speak . 

However, what surprised me was how Asahina-san looked like her legs were about to give out 
after reading that pseudo-article. 

"But that's If that was how it was " 

Since she had looked so shocked and her eyes so wide open that it seemed like those cute pupils 
of hers would pop out, I asked her why, but Asahina-san replied, 

"I can't talk about it much since it's classified information, but " 

After giving her refusal, 

"This is the central foundation of the time plane theory. In my time period erm, for people 

like me, it is the very first thing we learn. But who the originator was and which time it came 
from, has always been a mystery That it would turn out to be Suzumiya-san " 

She was speechless after that. I went along with her and said nothing, although coincidentally, a 
wild idea had sprung into my mind. 

Haruhi would probably be bringing home at least one copy of the club journal we had made. And 
that club journal, you can't say that there won't be any chance it would catch that Hakase-kun- 
like, bespectacled kid's eye. Haruhi was that boy's special tutor, after all. Although Asahina-san 



and I had already given that Hakase-kun a lot of cues, I guess that wasn't all of it. Would Haruhi 
become the root cause, after all? Even if she didn't, it would probably be a mix of various 
elements. The number of questions I wanted to ask Asahina-san (big) had just increased by one 
again. 

After completing the distribution of the club journal on that same day, Haruhi purposefully 
marched to the Student Council room to give that report. And it goes without saying that an aura 
of pride was flooding from her body. 

The Student Council President couldn't even move his eyebrows at Haruhi's break in and 
matching introduction, and as his glasses simply shone, 

"A promise is a promise. I will approve the continuation of the Literature Club. However, there 
is more to be concerned with yet regarding the SOS Brigade's existence. Do not forget that there 
is quite some time left on my term of office." 

Leaving us with that crystal-clear parting remark, he turned his back. 

Taking that as a declaration of defeat, Haruhi returned triumphantly to the clubroom, and danced 
victoriously with Asahina-san in front of Nagato as she watched indifferently. Ah well. 


At any rate, I've told you about that one disturbance as everything ended. After that, there was 
nothing left but to wait for spring to arrive in full. 

As it is, if nothing more were to happen, we would all move on to the next grade. If I had to say, 
it would probably be about spring break by the time Haruhi perpetrates something for the 
remaining events. 

It's hard to say if it's been a long or short year. This is a secret, but I'm putting a circle on one 
spot of the calendar on April this year. The same day on April as last year's Opening Ceremony. 

Even if somebody were to forget, or even if Haruhi herself didn't remember, I will remember the 
anniversary of that day without fail. 

The day when I first met Haruhi. The day I'm confident I will never forget my whole life. 
Provided I don't lose my memory. 


(End of Editor-in-Chief □ Straight Ahead!) 



Wandering Shadow 


The volleyball went down hard on the floor, making a surprisingly melodic 'Thud-' before it 
bounced back up. A loud round of cheers then rang throughout the gym and, as if mimicking the 
volleyball, bounced off the walls and ceilings and gathered around me. 

I was wearing slightly dirty gym clothes, sitting with my hands behind my back and my feet 
stretched forward. If you were to ask me why was I in such a relaxed pose, the answer is simple. 

I was merely a spectator, watching the volleyball match before me. And why was I doing this, 
you ask? Also simple, it's because I had nothing better to do. Since the school does not permit 
students leaving with an 'I have nothing better to do' excuse, my only option had been to head 
down here and watch other students play volleyball. 

I was sitting in a walkway, complete with handrails, instead of the bleachers, secretly suspecting 
that it was built for people like me who didn't want to be in the middle of such an atmosphere. I 
wasn't the only one who had dragged his lazy body all the way to this walkway to get away from 
the crowd though. It seems that there were other people besides me with too much time on their 
hands. 

Sitting beside me is my good friend, Taniguchi. 

"The girls in our class sure are athletic." 

From the tone of his voice, it seemed that he wasn't in awe, but kind of disappointed instead. 
"Yeah." 

I uttered this half-hearted response while continuing to watch the ball fly around the court. The 
opponent began her serve, and the ball traveled in an arc, before being projected upwards by the 
other side's setter. 

From behind the 3-meter line, a girl clad in gym clothes ran forward, then leapt high into the air. 
At the apex of her jump, the hitter raised her right arm, and viciously spiked the ball downwards. 
The angle was perfect, as the ball flew steeply down and landed in the corner of the opponents' 
court. A member from the volleyball club, who was acting as a stand-in referee, blew his whistle. 
A perfect back attack indeed. 

Once again, cheers rang throughout the gym. 

What a powerful spike. That girl must have been really bored up till now. 

"Hey, Kyon, let's make a bet, which side do you think will win?" 


Even though Taniguchi was the one making the suggestion, he didn't seem enthusiastic at all. It's 
a good idea, but the odds are highly stacked against the opposition. 


Before Taniguchi could say anything further, I said: 

"Class 1-5 will win. I'm sure of it." 

Upon hearing this, Taniguchi immediately shut his mouth, frowning. 

"Isn't that obvious? She's in our class, you know." 

After returning to earth, the aforementioned hitter turned around, revealing a bright smile full of 
self-confidence. She wasn't looking at me though, and even if she had been, her smile was 
different from the one she usually revealed in the club room. This seemed like more of a, "that 
was easy, too easy!" kind of smile that she was showing her teammates, who had come running 
over to congratulate her. 

Our class had already reached 15 points. It was a landslide victory. 

Just like we predicted, Class 1-5's Girls Team (A) had managed to sweep through the opposition, 
and their major scorer, their trump card, was currently buried among her teammates, gently 
beating her fists upon their open palms. 

As she left the court, she suddenly caught sight of the three of us squeezed inside the corridor by 
the wall. Her footsteps slowed down, as her gaze traveled towards me. I instantly shifted my 
gaze elsewhere. 

She was a super utility player, one who had managed to do anything perfectly. Once she tasted 
victory, she would only long for more, and that included scoring all the points in this current 
match. 

Ah, there's no need to try to sound mysterious anymore. This girl, who was currently sitting on 
the substitute bench drinking the beverages the team had brought, was, without a doubt, 
Suzumiya Haruhi. 

It was now March, and the end of term exams had just ended. Many schools were already 
making holiday preparations, and that of course included North High. Now normally this would 
be the time to quietly wait for the school holidays, but apparently someone had suggested "Don't 
we have better things to do instead of waiting for time to pass?" As a result, various intramural 
sports had been planned, and incorporated into the school's holiday preparations. 

Maybe it was done out of the school's concern for letting students have a break after the end of 
term exams, but if you ask me, I'd pick longer holidays over intramural sports activities anytime. 

In case you're wondering, this year's intramural sports event was soccer for the guys and 
volleyball for the girls. I was originally in my class's Boys Team (B), but we had been eliminated 



by Class 1-9 in one of the knockout rounds. I had found myself disliking them even more now, 
and having Koizumi in that class doesn't help either. Class 1-9 was a class for those interested in 
the Science and Mathematics Field, so it was naturally comprised of sharp-witted know-it-alls 
who did nothing but study. It would be downright humiliating to lose to them in soccer, all right. 

Which is why Taniguchi and I, as well the rest of Class 1-5's boys population were feeling so bad 
right now. 

Having nothing better to do, all of us came down to the gym to support the Girls Team instead. 
"Suzumiya-san's really something, isn't she?" 



£3 

Haruhi was enjoying a game of volleyball with her fellow classmates on the volleyball court. 

The soft-spoken Kunikida, who was also sitting beside me, said. Thanks to Haruhi's hyper- 
activeness, Girls Team (A) had managed to advance up the ladder and into their 3rd match, while 
the Boys Team were scrapped and turned into spectators in their second match. 

"Why isn't she in some sports club? Not everyone has such talent like her." 

I agree completely with him. If Haruhi had joined the athletics (track and field) club, she would 
have been able to compete in the nationals right now. The same goes with any kind of sport. She 
would probably be one of the top athletes after rigorous training. After all, I haven't seen anyone 
who likes the words "First Place" and "Victory" as much as her. 

As I continued to watch another match that was taking place beside the first court, I gave 
Kunikida my reply. 

"That girl has much more important things to do than wasting her youth on things like sports." 


Suddenly, I wondered if by any chance Asahina-san or Nagato would be in the gym cheering her 
along too. Unfortunately, they were nowhere to be seen. 



The SOS Brigade, eh. 


Kunikida said through one of his smiles. 

"Yea, that seems just like Suzumiya-san. She's never wanted to be an ordinary student ever since 
she began high school. It's fitting that she'd want to play some weird games with someone like 
you, Kyon." 

I didn't even have the strength to reply. 


No matter how you viewed it, my first year was fast drawing to an end. Since there would be no 
activities after the intramural sports, class time had been shortened. After that would be spring 
holiday, and when the cherry-blossoms start to bloom, I would be in my second year already. 

One thing many worried about was which class would they be sorted into, because it could very 
well determine how well their future school days would go. I had no bad feelings towards 
Kunikida or that idiot Taniguchi, so even if I had to be in the same class as them for another 
year, I definitely wouldn't mind. 

As I was deep in my thoughts, Kunikida suddenly arched forward, drawing my attention. 

"The next match is about to start, I think." 

As I peered downward, I saw Haruhi walking forward like the Team Captain, with her other 
teammates surrounding her. 

Spring would arrive soon, but since this school was situated on top of a mountain, it was still 
quite cold. Or maybe that was just me, due to receiving my end of term exam results just days 
ago. 

I was pretty pleased myself with those results, but unfortunately it seemed that my mum wasn't. 
She didn't say it out loud, but from the way she brought home various flyers about tuition centers 
and cram schools, I could pretty much take a hint. Just the sight of them had made me feel weak 
in the stomach. My mum had suggested I enter a university, be it a local one or a private one. 
Okabe-sensei had written the same things on my report card. But give me a break man, it's just 
too demanding. 

Haruhi had spoken to me about the same issue as well. Come to think of it, the only reason my 
marks weren't hovering dangerously above the dreaded "Pass" line was all thanks to Haruhi. She 
had specifically become my private tutor, giving me some last-minute "Studying tips" in the club 
room after school. A few days before the exams, she had slammed an entire stack of reference 
books and self-made notes on my desk and said: 

"I won't let you fail and sit for miserable tuition classes and re-examinations during the holidays! 
I won't let something so trivial come between you and the SOS Brigade's activities!" 



Once she started rambling about Brigade Activities, that girl would hear nothing from anyone 
else. I had originally wanted to ask her what was my hourly pay for contributing to Brigade 
Activities, but held back after rationalizing that my entire wallet might be confiscated at the 
mention of that sentence. 

Compared to spending the last few days of school being cooped up in a packed class room being 
forced by teachers to study, I'd rather sit in the club room and enjoy Asahina-san's tea while 
playing board games with Koizumi. That was the sole reason why I had asked Haruhi, who had 
an armband bearing the words "Supreme Instructor" now, to help me with my homework. 

Haruhi's method of study was simple, and that was via intuition. She would memorize any 
questions or topics she deemed important, and likely to appear on the sheet of my question 
papers. I had a feeling that Haruhi's intuition would be very accurate, so I listened carefully to 
her while nodding my head, Of course, if I were to ask Nagato, she would probably recite out the 
entire question paper for me, complete with the model answers. If I were to ask Koizumi instead, 
he might use some weird powers to magically whisk the question papers over from the staff 
room to the club room. Since I possessed no form of ESP, the only thing I could do was study 
hard. 

It would have been better if I could just sit back and do nothing but watch a happy Haruhi, who 
had specially prepared a teacher's cane and a pair of spectacles to look more like a "Supreme 
Instructor", waltz around the club room, but I knew that it was impossible. It was for my own 
good, after all. 

I was pretty sure Haruhi wanted to sit behind me again during the next semester, and every so 
often poke my back with her mechanical pencil and say, "Hey, Kyon, why don't we..." before 
proceeding to spout out some nonsensical idea that gave no consideration whatsoever to how 
others or I felt. In order to accomplish that, she had to be in the same class as me next semester, 
and that would mean having me pass the exams and not get retained for another year. Hence it 
was only natural that she monitored my grades. Why would she go all the way to do that, you 
ask? Well that's because she's the multi-talented, SOS Brigade commander after all. It's just like 
how a commanding officer cannot win a war without soldiers, and how soldiers would be 
disorganized on the battlefield without a reigning commander. Haruhi would be the commanding 
officer in question here, giving out various orders, while I would be her loyal soldier, faithfully 
executing each and every one of them. 

That's basically how things went last semester, and I strongly believe that next semester will be 
the same too. I have a hunch that's also what Haruhi has in mind, and in order to accomplish her 
goal, she would use any methods, including those out of the bounds of logic. Heck, I might even 
have to spend my entire life repeating my first year, Groundhog Day style. 


I really hoped that nothing like what happened last August would happen again. I'm pretty sure 
Haruhi doesn't either. At least, that is what I believe. 



Why? Do you even need to ask? It's because the creation of the SOS Brigade has given Haruhi 
many happy and memorable moments, and she wouldn't want those happy memories to go to 
waste. This I can definitely confirm. 

I mean, just look at Haruhi's current state. 

I once again looked at the match before me. 

Haruhi was leading the volleyball team to victory. 

She was attacking savagely, spiking at every chance. And before you ask, let me clarify that I 
wasn't peeping at her belly that occasionally showed whenever she made a high jump. I was 
looking at the expression on her face. 

When I first met her during the month of April a year ago, she was an individual who completely 
distanced herself from the class. During that time, all she had was a scowl on her face as she sat 
behind me, never smiling, not even once. Upon seeing this, I began chatting with her in order to 
liven up the atmosphere. Even though she would occasionally reply to my questions, she still 
kept a sizable distance from her fellow female classmates. Well, not any more now. Even though 
she didn't have a bunch of really good friends in our class, she had nevertheless warmed up to 
our classmates, instead of rejecting them like she had before. 

It must have been the SOS Brigade's influence. Before she became the eccentric person she was 
during high school, I believe that she used to be an active, cheerful and playful person. I don't 
think the SOS Brigade changed Haruhi. Rather, I think it reverted her back to her original self, 
reawakening her cheerful personality that was covered after she entered junior high. 

I don't think I've ever known Haruhi before junior high, seeing that we've never met before. I 
think I heard something about Haruhi from one of my friends who happened to study in the same 
junior high school as she did, but I can't really remember. 


In the gym, Haruhi was enjoying a game of volleyball with her fellow classmates on the 
volleyball court. For some reason, I felt as if she was holding herself back. Was that bright, 
million-watt smile she usually revealed during punishment-games reserved for us brigade 
members only? It's a shame then, Haruhi. I'm sure everyone would like to see it. 

Having successfully performed yet another backcourt attack, Haruhi slammed her fist into one of 
her teammate's wide opened palms. 


The volleyball game then ended, and as so today's school activities came to a close. 



Students who had club activities proceeded to head to their respective club rooms, while the 
others headed home. Being SOS Brigade members, Haruhi and I proceeded to walk to the all too 
familiar literature club room, with Haruhi looking even more pleased than usual. 

There was no doubt Haruhi was pleased after winning the volleyball match, but that was not all. 
The reason Haruhi looked even more pleased than usual was because she had successfully 
thwarted the student council's plot in overthrowing the SOS Brigade. Having defeated the 
student council's president, there was probably nothing that troubled Haruhi anymore, save the 
promotion to being second year seniors. 

Since Koizumi said that anything Haruhi wished for would become true, Nagato, Koizumi and I 
had come to the conclusion that there was a very big possibility Haruhi wished for all of us to be 
in the same class. Even though Koizumi was in "Bookworm" class, defying logic was the least of 
Haruhi's powers. After all, there have been even more logic-defying instances of Haruhi's 
powers, like for instance Asahina-san shooting laser beams out of her eyes. The main catch was 
Haruhi didn't know she had such powers. If she did, it would probably be the undoing of the SOS 
Brigade. 

That wasn't the only thing Haruhi didn't know. Haruhi had no idea Nagato had the ability to 
manipulate data, or that Koizumi could possibly achieve anything with the 'Organization' on his 
side. 

I'm a very positive guy. Even though I would be entering my second year of high school soon, I 
would still want to sit in front of Haruhi. And I dare say that if the SOS Brigade was disbanded, I 
would be very sad, as sad as I was when I found out during December that Haruhi had 
disappeared. 

But come to think of it, if the SOS Brigade was really disbanded, that wouldn't necessarily be a 
bad thing, and I don't think I'll come to mind so much. Because if the SOS Brigade was really 
disbanded, it would mean that Haruhi's powers had finally calmed down, and just like Koizumi 
said, that was not a bad thing either. I wonder if this is what they mean by triple-crossing. 

It's just — If that really happened, I think I'll be pretty lonely. 

"What's the matter?" 

Maybe it's because I had the words "Depressed" plastered all over my face, as the energetic 
Haruhi looked at me and said: 

"You certainly are acting strange today. For a moment you look silly, and all of a sudden you 
look serious. What's up, face muscle cramps? Or is it due to depression since losing the soccer 
match? To be honest, you guys are really pathetic." 

Well it's not completely my fault. The teams were decided by drawing lots, and all of the athletic 
guys were selected to join Team A. I had to play the role of Defender for Team B, along with 
Taniguchi and Kunikida. We had managed to stop the striker by clinging on to him as if our lives 



depended on it, but I never expected him to pass the ball to Koizumi, who then kicked the ball 
into the goal. But what a pity. Class 1-9 lost to class 1-6 in the semi-finals. Although this was 
nothing to be surprised at, I had a feeling that leaving things half-accomplished wasn't Koizumi's 
style. Perhaps he had lost on purpose? 

"What are you mumbling about?" 

Haruhi said as she suddenly laughed. 

"But since it's Koizumi-kun we're talking about, I can't say that it's totally impossible. Maybe 
they just wanted to prove you wrong. The only thing you and Taniguchi perceive them as are a 
bunch of useless book- worms right? In the end you failed to stop them miserably and in the 
process made fools out of yourselves. What a bunch of morons. Although they are some pretty 
cocky students in Class 1-9, 1 don't think that they're that bad as a whole." 

As I was recalling the match, I found myself before the club room door, having arrived here 
before I even knew it. Haruhi wrenched open the door and proudly strode inside. Don't you have 
any manners at all? And what happened to "knock before you enter"? 

"Mikuru-chan~ How did your matches go? Is there any cold tea? I've been playing volleyball 
ever since this morning, and my throat feels dry, probably due to lack of water." 

All the brigade members had already assembled in the club room. Nagato and Koizumi had 
resumed their usual seats, and Asahina-san had once again donned the maid costume as she stood 
by the door, holding a tea tray in her hands, looking like some elegant maid. I wonder if she 
plans on becoming Rembrandt or Ruben's model one day? 

"Erm, I'm sorry, there's no cold tea." 

Asahina-san frantically apologized, as if she had done something wrong. 

"I-I'll cool it down right away by putting it in the fridge... I-Is that okay?" 

Now that you mention it, there was really a fridge in this club room. Even though it was only a 
small one, it was nevertheless enough to stuff in a few cans of carbonated drinks. But since my 
main purpose of visiting the club room was to savor Asahina-san's tea, the fridge was about as 
useless as the stove after Christmas. 

"There's no need to." 

Haruhi generously said. 


"Even though it wouldn't take long for it to cool in the freezer, freshly brewed tea is still the 
best." 



Asahina-san swiftly brought Haruhi and me two cups of steaming tea. It seems that her tea- 
brewing skills have improved yet again. Just as I was thinking whether or not to compliment on 
her skills, Asahina-san suddenly said: 

"Hmm... Cold tea... Should I buy a water cooler next?" 

Sometimes I wonder, did Asahina-san bring anything else from the future other than knowledge 
on tea leaves? Even though she looked like a cute little maid, she was nevertheless a time 
traveler from the future. 

Koizumi was playing Othello all by himself. 

"Why bring out this nostalgic relic now?" 

I said to Koizumi as I sipped my tea. Come to think of it, this was the first board game to be 
brought into the club room, and I was the one who brought it. 

"It's because the brigade has been around for almost a year now, has it? I was thinking maybe we 
should go back to where we started. " 

Even though Koizumi was pretty courteous on the soccer field, he had returned to his original 
smiling state now. Before I had the chance to answer him, he had removed all the pieces from the 
Othello board and returned it to its original state back on the table. 



£3 

Asahina-san swiftly brought Haruhi and me two cups of steaming tea. 

Back to where we started, eh? 

Even though I haven't lived so long as to look back and reminisce on my past, there was 
something I've always wanted to say. 



I picked up the magnetic Othello board and shot a sideways glance. A year ago, I saw a person's 
shadow when I entered the club room. That shadow was now sitting in a corner of the club room, 
quietly reading a book on foreign literature. 


It was Nagato Yuki, silently reading a book in the corner. I clearly remember the one time this 
alien-made interface revealed any signs of emotions. It was when Asahina-san and I were 
playing Othello. 

Now that you mention it, I don't think I've ever played Othello with Nagato before. I don't think 
I'd have any chances of winning, though, unless Nagato decided to lose on purpose. Now if my 
opponent was Koizumi, that'd be another story. Unless Koizumi was also deliberately losing to 
me all this time. 

I had noticed that after plopping herself down on the commander's chair, Haruhi would be silent 
for a short period of time. First, she would turn on the computer and connect herself to the 
internet. That was a somewhat daily routine to her. The next thing she would do was access the 
SOS Brigade's miserable home page. This was the commander's duty, I suppose? Finally, she 
would begin surfing the Internet for all sorts of weird and unknown stuff. She would also 
occasionally download freeware from random sites and install them. I have no idea what's on the 
computer and what's not anymore. If she ran into a problem, Haruhi would simply summon up 
the Computer Society's President and have him fix things up immediately. Talk about using a 
tool to its fullest. 


On this lazy winter's evening, each and every one of us brigade members felt tired after that silly 
intramural sports event. All I wanted to do was have my evening pass peacefully. 

Playing Othello was not such a bad idea, and Asahina-san's tea was even tastier than usual. It 
seemed that today would pass in peace too, and soon enough we would be able to head back 
home. 

— If only that were the case. They say all peaceful days must come to an end some day. 

Back to where it all started. 

Because someone who had hoped for this happened to barge into the SOS Brigade's club room. 

Yes, a client. This time, it wasn't one of our prearranged plans, and I highly doubt it's something 
Haruhi wished for. 

After knocking on the door, our client politely entered our club room. Perhaps it was due to her 
politeness, I felt as if I was witnessing a sheep enter a tiger's den. 



Our client then proceeded to say something that made Haruhi very excited. 

"I think there are spirits wandering around my house. Could you please help me investigate the 
matter?" 

"Spirits?" 

With eyes sparkling, Haruhi repeated our client's words like a parrot learning to mimic. 

"Have they appeared before?" 

"Yes." 

Our client, Sakanaka-san, said as she nodded. 

"There have been plenty of rumors lately about spirits behind everything." 

Sakanaka who? I've already forgotten her given name, all I remember is that she's in the same 
class as Haruhi and me. Sakanaka-san sat on the chair specially reserved for clients, looking 
anxious as she sipped Asahina-san's tea. 

"It's happened just recently, about three days ago. I'm also confused about this matter..." 

Sakanaka-san said as she drank her tea. She then stood up and started walking around the club 
room, looking very much bemused, especially when she approached Asahina-san's costume rack. 

I suddenly recalled Haruhi's volleyball match. Standing beside Haruhi, the setter for Girl's Team 
(A), was this particular girl — Sakanaka-san. 

Truthfully speaking, I had a very vague impression of her in class. The only person of Class 1-5 
who stood out the most in my memory was the class representative Asakura Ryouko, who had 
since transferred to Canada. Since then I have no idea who the class representative was, or if her 
former position was still vacant. The other people I was familiar with would be Kunikida and 
Taniguchi. If put in terms of the solar system, Kunikida and Taniguchi would be like what Venus 
is to Earth, while my other classmates, Sakanaka-san included, would probably be the planet 
Uranus. 

Haruhi, however, was one who did not care about how distant she was from her classmates. 

"Please tell me everything you know. Spirits, eh... Spirits... Say Sakanaka-san, you're sure it's 
spirits who are behind everything, right? If that's true, then it should be time for the SOS Brigade 
to act!" 

From her looks, I was pretty sure she wanted to put on an armband that said "Spirit Detective" 
and rush straight to the scene of the crime. 



Erm... Wait... Suzumiya-san... 


Sakanaka-san said as she frantically waved her hands. 

"I can't guarantee its really spirits, it's just something that resembles spirits, that's all. Or at least 
that's what the rumors say... Although I do find that place to be really creepy..." 

When Sakanaka-san found the gazes of all five brigade members, Nagato included, focused on 
her, she quickly lowered her head, and said: 

"Erm... Was it right for me to come here..." 

"You were absolutely right, Sakanaka-san!" 

Haruhi roared. 

"Be it ghosts, spirits, specters, wandering souls, whatever. As long as they're supernaturally 
related I've got no problem with them. I can't sit still after finding out about this kind of 
incident!" 

You've never been able to sit still in the first place. 

"Kyon, I would appreciate it if you'd stop interrupting me with your silly side comments. We're 
talking about spirits here, spirits! Don't you want to see one? Or have you already seen one 
yourself?" 

I've never seen one, and I sure hope I never do. 

Haruhi looked like a kindergartener who had just woken up from her 30 minute nap. 
"Unfortunately we can't depart now. I've still got to work out the details." 

I'm sorry but I don't think there's much to work out. 

Haruhi's eyes flared up brightly in excitement. I avoided her gaze as I looked at Sakanaka-san 
who was sitting beside me, opening her mouth as if she had something to say, but abruptly 
closing it all of a sudden. 

Why did Sakanaka-san bring up the subject of spirits just as the term was about to end? Speaking 
of clients, she would probably be our second client so far, the first being Kimidori-san. After 
Kimidori-san had given us the trouble of locating the missing Computer Society President, I had 
tore down our advertising poster and tossed it into the bin. That seemed to have worked, because 
since then no one had bothered to visit the SOS Brigade. I doubt many even knew of an SOS 
Brigade anyway. Is that to say Sakanaka-san memorized the contents of the poster before I tore it 
down? If that was the case I felt sorry for her brain cells, for they could have been used to 
remember even more useful things. 



To my surprise, Sakanaka-san shook her head. 


"That's not it. I remembered that I had received something like a flyer for the SOS Brigade some 
time ago but had forgotten to throw it away on my way home. When I saw the flyer, I suddenly 
thought that this was the best place to come to." 

Sakanaka-san said as she retrieved a piece of paper from her bag. Upon seeing the old and 
crumpled paper, Asahina-san backed away like a vampire seeing a cross. 


"T-t-t-t-that’s...." 


That was the first ever official flyer of the SOS Brigade, which was actually printed using the 
school's photocopier. 

It was the SOS Brigade's founding principle. 

If I'm not mistaken, this is what was written on the flyer: 

"We at the SOS Brigade are currently searching for any paranormal activities in this world. 

Those who have experienced, are experiencing, or feel that they will experience a paranormal 
event soon are welcome to come seek us. We will try our best to solve your problem..." 

This flyer was written by Haruhi, who wished to seek out all the paranormal activities in the 
world, and distributed by two bunny girls by the school gates. 

Oh boy. It seems that the seed Haruhi had planted a year ago had now sprouted and came back to 
us. And during the end of the school terms, too. Who had wanted such a thing to happen? I didn't 
scream out "encore". Is this what "back to where we started" meant? 

I wonder if Sakanaka-san felt the uneasiness Asahina-san and I radiated, as she too grew uneasy. 

"... This is the SOS Brigade, am I right? It's very famous now... From what I've heard, it was 
Suzumiya-san and you guys who were involved in that scary incident..." [Translator's note: The 
word used for scary is ambiguous. It could mean "scary incident" or "act of terrorism".] 

I'm sorry, Sakanaka-san, but I'm afraid we don't have anyone talented in that field. The only ones 
we have are a book-loving alien, an esper who likes to deduce and a time traveler that will 
greatly soothe your tired eyes. We would probably be more talented in the science fiction field 
instead. Of course, all of this doesn't apply to good old normal me. 

As I sat down quietly without uttering a word, a peculiar expression appeared on Haruhi's face. 

"You see, Kyon, someone did bother to read our flyers. How can you say that it's a waste of time 
now? Maybe we should resort to distributing flyers again in the future." 

Honestly. I think that even Haruhi had forgotten about the whole flyer incident as well. 



Well, rest assured, Sakanaka-san! Since we're classmates, I'll solve this for you free of charge! 


Truthfully speaking, Haruhi never once charged anyone who came here. After all, the greatest 
reward Haruhi could ever expect would to be to come in contact with some paranormal event. As 
long as a client came to visit our club room, Haruhi would be overjoyed. It was the same with 
Kimidori-san's kamadouma case as well. 

"Spirits eh." 

Haruhi said as a smile creased her lips. 

"Our goal is to exterminate those evil spirits, but before that, I'll have to know each and every 
detail regarding them! Oh, and we'll be needing the camera and camcorder too." 

Haruhi said to herself, getting excited over a matter all of us brigade members clearly weren't. 
This wasn't good. If this went on, spirits might really appear... Wait, did Sakanaka-san say 
spirits? 

Ahaha. Those spirits might be nothing more than an optical illusion. If word got out that spirits 
really did exist, then all the foundations of science that man had spent years to accumulate might 
very well crumble. 

"Erm... I think we'd better wait. I can't really guarantee that spirits really are behind this. Maybe 
they aren't, but I can't seem to find any other explanation for it..." 

Sakanaka-san started to fumble with her words. 

"Hey, Haruhi." 

I interrupted. Why, you ask? It's because that idiot had already began running towards the 
equipment closet. 

"Calm down, would you? Or at least, hear what Sakanaka-san has to say." 

"You're in my way." 

Haruhi said as she frustratedly sat back down on the commander's chair, crossing both her arms 
at the same time. She shot Sakanaka-san and me a look that suggested we should hurry up and 
finish what we had to say. I ignored her and glanced at Koizumi and Nagato's expressions, which 
I had not done since Sakanaka-san had entered the clubroom. 

I shouldn't have looked. 

The two of them looked indistinguishable from normal. Koizumi still wore his trademark, foxy 
smile, and Nagato didn't display any expression at all, just as usual. 



However, they seemed to be taking interest in Sakanaka-san, and for some strange reason, I 
suddenly felt that the both of them had the same thoughts running in their minds. 


— Spirits? What is she talking about? 

That's what I could read from the looks on their faces. 

Since we're on the subject of spirits, let me first clarify that I don't believe in ghosts. I had firmly 
believed that those supernatural shows you'd see on television were no more than cheap 
entertainment, and were definitely not real. 

However, all that I had previously believed in had gone out of the window ever since last year. 
Do you still have to ask why? It's because I've come into contact with aliens, time travelers, and 
even an idiotic esper. I've even gone through many paranormal events myself. 

Due to this, it would come across as no surprise should spirits, demons or angels suddenly 
materialize before my eyes one day. But just like I've never had the chance to meet a slider, I've 
never had a chance to say hello to a wandering spirit either. Seeing that I've never come across 
any spirits before, it would be useless to worry about them. If they really decided to show 
themselves before me, I guess that I would have little choice then. However, I was not so 
desperate as to go searching for them myself. I think all of you should understand the current 
situation I'm stuck in now, no? 

Besides, I'm not the only one stuck in this mess. 

"Spirits eh... Hmm..." 

Haruhi said as she rubbed her chin, appearing to be in deep thought. 

"Erm, about this matter... Well..." 

Asahina-san said as she looked suspiciously at our client. 


Nagato was quiet, just as usual. 

It was as if all of the brigade members had the same thoughts as I did, be it Nagato, Koizumi, or 
Asahina-san. At the mentioning of the word "spirit", all of them became dead serious all of a 
sudden. Haruhi was obviously the only exception. Asahina-san looked as if she had little idea of 
what the word spirit truly meant, as she stood there with a blank look on her face. Maybe 
sometime in the far future, religion will be a thing of the past. That's too bad, Asahina-san. 
Maybe I should teach you a thing or two about religion. Well, maybe some time in the future. 



Even though I wasn't a very sociable person, at the very least, Haruhi wasn't the only person that 
I spoke to in Class 1-5. 1 would occasionally chat with Taniguchi, Kunikida and some of my 
other male classmates. Female classmates, though, were another story altogether. I had almost 
zero experience in socializing with girls. That is, to put it simply, I rarely talked to any of the 
girls in my class. 

Even after racking every single corner of my brain, I could still not recall any incident where I 
had talked with Sakanaka-san. But even so, from my observations, Sakanaka-san was one of 
those girls who rarely talked. 

"I first started suspecting the presence of spirits thanks to Rousseau." 

Sakanaka-san said to an attentive Haruhi. 

"Rousseau?" 

Haruhi frowned upon hearing the name. 

"Erm... It's the name of my dog." 

That's some way to name a dog. 

"Every morning and evening, I would bring Rousseau for a walk along the same path. When my 
family first got Rousseau, we used to take many different paths, but that was no longer the case. I 
would now take him for a walk on a fixed route, while taking a stroll at the same time." 

You can skip trivial details like that. 

"I'm sorry but could you get straight to the point?" 

"Kyon, be quiet." Haruhi snapped at me as she said: "Please continue, Sakanaka-san." 

"Rousseau used to like the path we would take, but one day..." 

Sakanaka-san's voice grew fainter as she gulped, making it sound as if she was about to dictate a 
horrifying ghost story. 

"About a week ago, Rousseau suddenly refused to take the familiar path. Even though I pulled 
him along his leash, he would not budge." 

Sakanaka-san demonstrated a pose that I was highly familiar with — With both her hands 
clawed tightly on the desk, she resembled Shamisen refusing to get off my bed at night. 

"How was it possible for me to not be shocked at his reaction? He had been fine all along, it was 
only after approaching that place that he started acting weird. The same thing happened the next 
day, and the day after that, so I had no choice but to change our usual route." 



Sakanaka-san paused and drank a cup of tea. 

So that's what happened. A dog, which happened to share the same name with a famous 
philosopher, suddenly disliked its original route. What did this have to do with spirits? 

Haruhi beat me to that question. 

"What about spirits?" 

Haruhi asked loudly. 

"Erin... That's why..." 


Sakanaka-san said as she lowered her tea cup. 

"That's why I said I'm not sure if it involves spirits. It's just a rumor I've heard lately." 

And where did that spirit rumor originate from? 

"Lots of places. Many people keep dogs as pets in my area. I would occasionally meet up with 
them whenever I took Rousseau for a walk and stop by for a chat. The first time I've heard the 
rumor was when I was talking to Minami-san, who kept two Shar Peis as pets. According to 
Minami-san, both of her dogs also refused to walk along that path, as if they were troubled by it. 

Could it be something we humans can't sense? 

"Yeah, I think so, because I certainly never felt anything when I passed by." 

We're getting more and more off topic here. What about spirits? 

"Well, you see..." 

Sakanaka-san said, as if she was deeply troubled by the incident. 

"From that day onwards, all dogs in that area refused to approach that place. Soon, it became a 
hot topic among dog owners, and it seemed like dogs weren't the only ones who disliked that 
place either. There used to be a couple of stray cats in that area, but ever since then, even they 
have disappeared from there. 

All this while, Haruhi was listening very carefully. She would occasionally make random notes 
with her pencil, as if taking down important clues. But when I took a peek, all I saw were a 
couple of childish drawings of cats and dogs. 

"There must be spirits nearby, that's why animals do not dare to approach that place. It could be 
spirit that only appeared before cats and dogs, but not humans. Am I right?" 



Yes, that's the case. 


Sakanaka-san said as she nodded her head. 

"Oh and there's another thing that's been bothering me. I have a friend named Higuchi-san who 
lives in the same area. She owns a lot of dogs, and I'm friends with each and every one of them." 

Sakanaka-san then used a scary tone as she said: 

"This morning, I noticed that she didn't bring one of her dogs out for a walk. When I asked her, 
she told me that he had fallen sick last night. She didn't go into the details, but from what I heard, 
it seems that he was sent to a vet. " 

"So do you think spirits have anything to do with this? Suzumiya-san?" 

"Hmm... I'd say there are, but..." 

Haruhi crossed her arms, lowered her head, shut her eyes and was soon deep in thought. From 
the expression on her face, I could roughly guess what she was thinking. "But if that's all that's 
happened, then it'd be too boring. Throwing in spirits to the mix makes things seem more 
interesting." 

"But from our current situation, I can't confirm anything yet." 

Hearing Haruhi say something as down-to-earth as that definitely surprised me. But shortly after 
that, she said: 

"However, the possibility of this case involving spirits is very high. Maybe it's some spirit only 
dogs or cats can see. That girl - what was her name again? Her dog must have seen the spirit and 
suffered from major shock. That's why it fell sick." 

I couldn't say that I completely disagreed with Haruhi. I had seen Shamisen stare at an empty 
corner of my room for long periods before, as if looking at something I couldn't see. But 
apparently cats were different from dogs. Even if they really did see a spirit, they wouldn't fall 
ill. As a cat owner, I think I understand this very well. 

As I was thinking about Shamisen, Haruhi suddenly stood up, threatening to kick the chair she 
was previously sitting on high into the air. 

"I've basically understood the situation we're in right now." 

The only thing I understand is that there's some place where dogs and cats can't enter. 

"That's more than enough. Instead of staying here making pointless deductions, we should hurry 
to the scene. If we're lucky, we might run into something that apparently drives fear into an 
animal's heart. It could be a spirit, a ghost, or maybe even a monster! 



A monster? Isn't that even scarier than a spirit? Just merely thinking of the various monsters that 
roamed Europe during the 19th century had made shivers travel up my spine. If it was a 
wandering spirit we encountered, we could perhaps preach to it and convince it not to harm us in 
order to be reincarnated into the next life, but if it's monsters or demons we're talking about, then 
you shouldn't have come here in the first place, Sakanaka-san! What would happen if one of us 
were to be possessed? 

Thinking of this, I suddenly found myself looking at Nagato. 

Since the last client we had, Kimidori-san (who was now the student council secretary by the 
way) was related to Nagato in a way, could Sakanaka-san be related to her too? 

I immediately expelled that idea from my mind. That was because Nagato had already put away 
her book and was keenly listening to Sakanaka-san. On that pale, white face of hers was an 
expression only I could fathom, something that I was greatly proud of. From what I could tell, 
Nagato seemed to be in deep thought, meaning that Sakanaka-san's weird spirit-talk was 
something totally new for her. 

I then turned my head suspiciously towards Koizumi. As we locked sights, Koizumi shrugged, 
and revealed a sort of pained smile on his face, as if asking what I wanted. "It's none of my 
business" — That was apparently what Koizumi was trying to say, based on his body language. I 
felt as if I had begun to understand Koizumi a little more. 

The only person left would be someone I needn't look at to know her answer. Asahina-san 
revealed an expression that plainly said "I know nothing at all". In fact, I doubt if she even knew 
what we were talking about, or what was going on. 

"Well then, everyone," 

Haruhi said energetically. 

"Let's go now, we have a camera... But we lack a ghost trap. Now if only we had some paper 
strips with Tangut Inscriptions on them..." 

"It's also important to have maps of the area." 

Koizumi added, as he tossed Sakanaka-san a light smile. 

"I would like to start a serious investigation on this. Would you mind if I asked for Rousseau's 
help in assisting this investigation?" 

Seems like he's also pretty keen on starting this investigation himself. 

It would be pointless searching all over the area for suspicious spots. If we did what Koizumi 
said and have Rousseau lead the way, we would be able to save a lot of time and head straight to 
our destination. 



Alright. 


Sakanaka-san said as she nodded towards Koizumi's handsome face. 

"I'll bring him out for a walk then." 

Asahina-san's eyes bulged as she said: 

"Erm, if we're really going, then I'll have to change first..." 

All this while Asahina-san was furiously gripping on her maid outfit, looking very anxious, as if 
she was half expecting herself to be dragged out in that outfit if she did not hurry up and change. 
That made sense, though, as Haruhi would definitely drag her along in that outfit should she get 
in the way of her investigation. 

"Hmm, that's right Mikuru-chan, you'd better get changed. You can't be seen in that outfit 
outside." 

Haruhi had finally made a logical statement. 

"Okay." 

Asahina-san said as she revealed a relaxed expression, and proceeded to reach for her hairclip. 

If that was so, Koizumi and I would have to leave. 

There was no way I'd let Koizumi taste some free eye candy. 


As I turned my back and prepared to leave, Haruhi said something shocking. 

"Mikuru-chan, you're not allowed to wear your uniform." 

"Eh?" 

Ignoring Asahina-san's troubled "Eh", Haruhi strode towards the costume rack, and smiled 
sadistically as she withdrew an outfit. 

"This is it. It's perfect for spooky occasions like this!" 

Haruhi said as she raised a long white-and-red kimono. It was one which reminded me of ancient 
Japan, and that is to say... 

Asahina-san stepped back instinctively. 



T-that's... 


"A miko outfit. A miko!" 

A wicked smile lit up Haruhi's face. It was a smile that appeared whenever she had one of her 
brilliant ideas. Thrusting the miko outfit into Asahina-san's arms, Haruhi said: 

"Since we're going on an exorcising trip, this is the best costume we have. If only I had known 
earlier, I would have definitely prepared some religious robes. Since we can't have Mikuru-chan 
dress up like a nun or monk because it's too embarrassing, the only choice we have left is to have 
her dress up as a miko... How's that, Kyon? I'm not one who would bring in different costumes 
without considering! Isn't this costume just perfect for the occasion?" 

Even though school was already over, I still felt it was better to discuss whether the maid outfit 
or the miko one would draw more attention from the students. However, before I had a chance to 
express my thoughts, Haruhi had already shooed me and Koizumi out of the club room. 

The sounds of Haruhi's glorious shouts, mingled with Asahina-san's cute yet horrified screams, 
soon drifted out of the club room. 

"Koizumi." 

"Yea? Before you ask, let me first clarify that I don't think spirits are involved." 

Koizumi said as he brushed his hair, and once again revealed his trademark, fox-like smile. 

"So what do you think it is this time?" 

"I can't guarantee anything at this point. All I can do is make educated guesses." 

Ah, whatever. Just spill it. 

"From what Sakanaka-san said, there was a place many dogs couldn't enter. That brings me to 
my question. What do animals, especially cats and dogs, have that's superior to us humans?" 

"The sense of smell?" 

"That is correct. There should be something on that path that dogs do not like, or perhaps 
something buried there." 

Koizumi tidied his hair once again, and said while smiling: 

"The first thing that came into mind would be a gaseous bomb, or something of the sort. Maybe 
it had fell off an army truck while being shipped to who knows where." 



You moron. If something as sensitive as a bomb could fall off the back of the truck, what was the 
point of using the truck to transport it in the first place? 

"Another possibility would be radioactive materials. However, I have no idea how keen animals 
are towards radiation." 

Let's just ignore gas bombs and radioactive substances for a while. I find something like an 
unexploded bomb to be much easier to believe. 

"Hmm, that's actually possible too. What about this one? Maybe a bear happened to hibernate 
nearby after coming down from the mountains. Now that it's going to awaken anytime soon, the 
dogs are all fleeing in fear..." 

Don't be ridiculous! We don't even have wild boars nearby, never mind wild bears. 

"That's why," Koizumi said as he elegantly crossed his arms, "If the only clue we have is that 
there's something going on that's related to smell, it would be possible to formulate all sorts of 
wild theories. The only way to solve this mystery would to be to gather all the information 
possible, analyze it with a calm and deductive mind, infer a plausible hypothesis with the help of 
an imaginative mind, and finally follow the line that your gut tells you to. Only when such 
procedures come together can we unveil the truth. So for the first step, we have to make sure all 
the information comes from a reliable source. Do we have all the information needed now? 
There's no way to know. That's why it's not as easy to solve a mystery as it looks." 

If you want to give your opinions on deducing and inferring, you should go to a research facility. 
What was the point of bringing it up here? Just like Haruhi said, all we needed to do was head to 
the scene of the crime, and search for anything suspicious, as simple as that. For all we know, 
Haruhi might end up digging up something weird, like ancient coins from the Chinese Empire. If 
that really happened, the archeologists over the world would probably be stumped, so it's better 
not to hope for something like that to happen. 

To make a long story short, if you want to make any deductions, or as you call them, educated 
guesses, Koizumi, save them for the next club meeting. 

"Finding out the truth via simple logic, that could very well be one of the greatest secrets of 
deduction. But then again, if the truth could be unveiled that easily, then this case would be far 
too unentertaining, eh?" 

As Koizumi was muttering some complicated-sounding crap again, I felt the door I was leaning 
on suddenly budge, as it began slanting sideways. 

And, as the door opened, an energetic brigade commander tugged a miko version of Asahina-san 
out to meet us. 

"Preparations complete! You look good in that, Mikuru-chan! Any wandering spirit would 
certainly be shocked right back to the afterlife ! " 



Sob 


Asahina-san lowered her head in embarrassment as she stood out for our viewing pleasure, 
looking very wobbly. After the Hinamatsuri festival on the 3rd of March, I once again got to see 
her in such an outfit. 

When was that kimono made, I wonder? It was downright similar to those kinds of kimonos used 
only by shrine maidens, complete with one of those ceremonial staves, and if she performed a 
miko-mai in this while reciting random incantations, I don't think evil spirits were the only ones 
who would descend to the afterlife. Simply put, this outfit was so cute, it was made for the kill. 

Behind the both of them was Sakanaka-san, who was frantically saying "Erm... There's no need 
to go this far actually..." and Nagato, who was not transparent but who's existence resembled a 
spirit. As all of them left the club room, it appeared that all preparations to leave the school were 
indeed complete. 

Are we really going off to exorcise spirits? Asahina-san was forced to become a miko now, and 
if this part-time miko did indeed wave that exorcising staff around in a miko-mai, I fear that 
she'd accidentally hit her shoulders with it or something. To all the real priests and exorcists out 
there, we're terribly sorry for the humiliation. 


Finally, early spring had come. During this season, it was common to exhibit strange behaviors, 
be it people, cats or dogs. 

Theoretically, that is. 

Haruhi had a very excited expression on her face as our search began. I felt as if we were going 
to be dragged into some other strange event again, for the other brigade members Koizumi, 
Asahina-san and even Nagato had begun operating individually. Sometimes I wonder if I should 
actually do something instead of just standing around. 

However, I was the only brigade member that wasn't bound to any faction, so the only thing I 
was capable of doing was standing here and fiddling with my own thoughts. 

And come to think of it, the one who was leading us was no more than an ordinary dog-loving 
female classmate of mine. Based on the story Sakanaka-san had told us, I wondered if spirits 
would really materialize before our eyes. 

If spirits that couldn't be exorcised by Asahina-san's incantations did exist and were really 
floating all around town, they would have floated all the way into the club room a long time ago. 
The most important thing was that such a festival for ghosts had yet to appear. 

No, wait. I take that back. The most important thing might very well be— 



Something even harder to explain than spirits, who had conveniently not materialized since none 
of us had even thought about it. 


After walking down the steep slope beyond North High, we boarded a train at the train station, 
switched railways once, and finally took a different train to the area where Sakanaka-san lived. 
Since it was located in the opposite direction from the train station the SOS Brigade used to 
meet, I had never been to that area before. All I knew was that it was a high-class residential 
area. 

Since there were plenty of rich businessmen living in the area, it was obvious that Sakanaka-san 
was pretty rich herself. Her father was the CEO of some large company, while her brother was 
pursuing a degree in medicine at a famous university. I can't believe that I only noticed I had 
such a rich classmate at the end of the term. 

"It's nothing much actually." 

Sakanaka-san said as she clutched her hands humbly on the train. 

"My father's only managing a small company, while my brother's studying at a local university." 

That is to say that aside from her family being rich, her brother was also a smart guy. I wonder if 
Sakanaka-san calls her brother "Onii-chan"? I'm beginning to miss that calling now. 

An image of my sister smiling popped into my mind. I dismissed it by glancing all around the 
train. 

Since all of us were headed to Sakanaka-san's house, it was natural that the five members of the 
SOS Brigade, plus one of my classmates, were huddled together in one spot. For some people, 
six may seem too big a company, but thankfully, there were other students boarding the same 
train. Since most of them were girls from Kouyouen High School, we North High students were 
forced to a corner. But even in a train full of high school students, I felt that we were definitely 
drawing in too much attention. 

"Sob " 

That would be due to Asahina-san sobbing as she tightly held on the handrails. That can't be 
helped. There was no way a sobbing girl in a miko outfit boarding a public train wouldn't attract 
any sort of attention. 

Asahina-san had once boarded a train in a bunny-girl outfit, and was even forced to run round the 
shops in that area in the same outfit. That's why I wanted to console her by telling her she was far 
better off this time. At least she was dressed in a costume that didn't reveal much skin. 



"Mikuru-chan, do you know any incantations, spells, verses, or anything of the sort?" 

"... Sob... N-no..." 

Asahina-san said softly as she lowered her head. 

"Well that's to be expected." 

Even though she faced an ashamed Asahina-san, Haruhi didn't bother lowering her voice. She 
certainly didn't care how Asahina-san felt, all right. 

"What about you, Yuki? Have you read about anything to do with exorcism in your books 
before?" 


Nagato was staring at the passing scenery outside the train window when Haruhi asked her. She 
spent two seconds to briefly shake her head, before resuming her original pose once again. 

I had a feeling I knew what Nagato was about to say. It appeared that Haruhi did too, as she said: 

"Is that so. Well, I guess it's only natural that no one remembers any spells or incantations. But 
fortunately for you Mikuru-chan, I happen to recall a small portion of an incantation, so repeat 
after me..." 

What type of incantation are you planning on teaching Asahina-san anyway? If that incantation 
turns out to be some sort of summoning spell, don't try to blame Asahina-san when something 
happens. And don't bother looking for me either, as I'll be the first one to run away. 

"Don't be stupid." 

Haruhi said happily. 

"If I did know such a powerful incantation, I would have tried it out ages ago. Now that you 
mention it, I remember buying a spell book when I was in junior high. Even though I followed 
everything written on it, nothing happened. So I came to the conclusion that those spell books 
you buy in shopping districts can't be genuine." 

"Hmm, I've just thought of something fun." 

For a fleeting moment, I pictured a light bulb suddenly lighting up above Haruhi's head. 

"For our next city-wide search, why not head to some old bookstores or antique shops? We'll be 
targeting suspicious old shop owners, and asking them to hand out their genuine magic spell 
books or magical artifacts ! If we're lucky, maybe genies will appear after we give the artifacts a 
rub!" 



If a genie would grant me three wishes and then quietly retreat back into his lamp for another 
thousand years of slumber, then I might have been interested. Unfortunately, I had a feeling that 
the genies Haruhi had in mind were those dark sorcerers who were sealed into lamps during 
ancient times which, upon being released, would proceed to wreak havoc upon the entire Earth. 
Thinking about this, I was a little uncertain about having Haruhi venture into some old antique 
store and proceed to give everything around her a rub. All I wished for was for the "old 
bookstores" and "antiques shops" of Haruhi to quickly close their shops for the day before 
Haruhi suddenly changed her mind and decided to organize a city search today. 

Needless to say, our conversation had already drifted away from "magical incantations" and was 
now focused on "magical artifacts". 

"Huhuhu-" 

As if reading my mind, Koizumi let out one of his "Huhuhu-" laughs. Since he had both of his 
hands full, he wasn't able to grab a hold of the handrail and as such wobbled dangerously as the 
train ran along its tracks. He had his own bag in one hand, and Asahina-san's in the other. And 
since we're on the topic of bags, aside from my own schoolbag which was sitting in my right 
hand, I had another bag slung over my shoulder. Inside that bag was Asahina-san's school 
uniform. Asahina-san needed to change into her school uniform before she went back home, 
right? If we had left her uniform at school, she would be forced to either wear the miko costume 
to school or skip school altogether. And since any sane person would choose to skip school, I 
had no doubt that Asahina-san would too. If that were to happen, what would become of my 
daily dose of Asahina-san's tea? What would I drink to quench my dry throat then? 

"Relax. I can handle that for you if such a situation ever arises." 

Koizumi said to me, sounding quite relaxed for someone who just offered to shoulder a big 
responsibility. 

"Even though I'm no good at making tea, I have ways to make sure Asahina-san attends school. I 
can arrange a car to pick her up if you wish." 

Faced with such an offer, all I did was remain silent. 

The person driving would most likely be someone from the 'Organization' anyway. Now if it 
were Arakawa-san, I would have no qualms with it, but if it were Mori-san, whose age remained 
a well-kept secret, I would feel uneasy about it. Sometimes I wonder if she's Koizumi's superior. 
If it were someone else from the 'Organization', I would definitely be worried about letting them 
send Asahina-san to school. Even though they once assisted us during the Asahina Michiru 
kidnapping incident, I still couldn't bring myself to fully trust them. 

Koizumi went "Huhuhu-" again, as he said: 


"That's a pity then. And after all the trouble I went of asking Mori-san for help. It seems that I'm 
going to be a laughingstock at the office again." 



The train made a creaking noise, as it shook and slowly decelerated. It seemed that we had 
reached our destination at last. 

Now's not the time to worry about Koizumi's 'Organization', or whatever Haruhi had in mind for 
our next city- wide search. 

It was time to find out what was bothering Sakanaka-san's dog so badly. 


After stepping out from the station, all of us proceeded to follow Sakanaka-san as she led us to 
her house. Although it was located uphill, it wasn't as steep as the mountain leading to North 
High, and maybe it's just me, but why are the girls here prettier than usual? 

Luckily, no one stopped to glare at Asahina-san's miko costume, nor did any police officers take 
us into custody for suspected kidnap of a shrine maiden. After 15 minutes or so, we finally made 
it to Sakanaka-san's house. 

"Here we are." 

After seeing Sakanaka-san casually point at the huge building before us, multiple synonyms of 
the word "unhappiness" immediately ran through my mind. The building before us was 
undoubtedly a grand bungalow, and it was painfully obvious that whoever lived in there must 
have been really rich. The walls, the door, and even the front gate of the three-storey bungalow 
radiated an aura of superiority, and to top it off, it also had a huge garden in the front yard. 

Although it wasn't as wide as Tsuruya-san's traditional-style mansion in terms of land, it 
nevertheless displayed a sense of modernity and class that even an outsider like me could detect. 
By the door was the obligatory security company label, and in the huge, roofed garage, two cars 
were parked. One of them was a locally-made car, and the other was an imported one. By the 
looks of the garage, it seemed that it could still accommodate a third car. I wonder how much 
karma I needed to amass before I could be born and raised in a wealthy family like this. 

As I was wallowing in my self pity for not being born rich, Sakanaka-san quickly opened the 
front gate, and beckoned for Haruhi to enter. Haruhi, being her usual self, strode royally into 
Sakanaka-san's house, as Nagato, Koizumi and Asahina-san followed tightly behind, with me at 
the rear. 

"Please wait a moment." 

Sakanaka-san withdrew a set of keys from her bag, and proceeded to open the front door, which, 
by the way, had three sets of different locks. 


This is so annoying... 



Sakanaka-san said as she began unlocking the door. Could it be that no one was at home? Nah, 
that can't be it. Sakanaka-san mentioned earlier that her mother was in. It was probably a habit to 
lock all the doors tightly even though there was someone in then. 

"Where's your dog you mentioned earlier?" 

"Erm, he'll be here soon." 

Sakanaka-san pushed open the doors, as— 

"Woof woof!!" 

With a series of excited barks, a small, white furred dog leapt out of the door, and began 
wagging its tail and playfully nipping at Sakanaka-san's skirt. 

"Kyaa~ It's so cute-" 

Asahina-san's eyes gleamed as she knelt down and began patting the puppy. The puppy peered at 
Asahina-san with its small, black eyes and placed its paw upon Asahina-san's hand. It then 
proceeded to run in circles around the miko-outfit clad Asahina-san. No matter how you look at 
it, this was one normal puppy, and I bet that there was a certificate somewhere in Sakanaka-san's 
house that proved that it was a pure breed. 

"Rousseau, sit." 

Upon hearing its owner's command, Rousseau immediately sat down on all fours. It was clear 
that this was a well-trained puppy. Asahina-san took this opportunity to once again pat its head. 

"Erm... Can I carry him?" 

"Why, Sure." 

Asahina-san clumsily picked up the puppy and began cradling it in her arms. Rousseau yipped 
happily and licked Asahina-san on her face. Now if this was the kind of treatment every dog 
could have, then I wouldn't mind being reincarnated into one during my next lifetime. 

"This is Rousseau eh? He looks like one of those battery-operated toys! What kind of dog is it?" 

Haruhi said as she patted the little puppy on the head. Even though it was being cradled tightly 
by Asahina-san, Rousseau still behaved well and remained silent. It seems that it originated from 
a good breed. 

"A Scottish Highlands White Terrier," 

Koizumi responded faster than Sakanaka-san, mentioning a kind of breed that seemed more like 
a sacred race to me. Revealing a knowledgeable face, Koizumi flashed a charming smile as 



Sakanaka-san said, "you're pretty knowledgeable," while looking fondly at her own dog, who 
was cradled in Asahina-san's arms. 


"He's cute, isn't he?" 

Yup, really cute. 

With a coat of thick, snow white fur, and a set of deep black eyes that were almost concealed 
behind that thick fur, Rousseau looked just like a plush doll all right. Rousseau's upbringing must 
have resembled that of a noble's, while that tri-colored cat of mine, who was probably lazing off 
in my room right now having nothing better to do, resembled a peasant. But let's not forget that 
Shamisen is in a totally different class from him. At the very least, that cat once spoke before. 

Nagato was behaving eerily like Shamisen, staring straight at the white terrier, not blinking for a 
full ten seconds. But after a while, Nagato shifted her glance elsewhere, as if she had lost interest 
in the dog. Sigh. 

"Now hold it right there, Mikuru-chan. Just how long are you planning on hogging him all for 
yourself? I wanna play with him too, you know?" 

Since Haruhi had said so, Asahina-san had no choice but to part with Rousseau. Maybe it was 
just me, but I noticed that Rousseau seemed to enjoy the spotlight, as he jumped eagerly into 
Haruhi's arms. Is there a theory that dogs tend to get more excited when surrounded by 
strangers? Even though Haruhi's method of handling Rousseau was pretty rough compared to the 
way Asahina-san cradled him, Rousseau didn't even whine. He even wagged his tail furiously, as 
if enjoying the whole experience. 

"You're such a cutie, aren't you, JJ?" 

'Hey, Haruhi, stop giving stupid nicknames to other people's dogs' was what I was about to say, 
when Sakanaka-san beat me to it and said: 

"Ahaha- Suzumiya-san, you're using the same nickname for him as my father does." 

I was pretty sure Haruhi didn't like being labeled as sharing the same taste as Sakanaka-san's dad. 
However, the look on her face suggested that it didn't bother her one bit, as she happily carried 
the puppy, who shared the same name with a certain French philosopher, high in the air. 

"So JJ found out something unusual during one of his walks, did he?" 

Even though Haruhi was questioning the dog, Rousseau did nothing but simply wag his tail. It 
was his owner, Sakanaka-san, who replied her question by nodding her head. 

"Yeah, that's the case. Even though I'm not sure how unusual this is, other dogs besides 
Rousseau have also detected it, and have begun staying away from that area, as if mighty fearful 
of it. That's how the rumor of spirits originated." 



Even though I felt that Sakanaka-san and her friend's guesses seemed kind of farfetched, I had no 
right to say that out loud, having known time travelers, aliens and espers. Who knows, maybe 
Sakanaka-san's spirits did exist, after all. 

But come to think of it, Asahina-san, Nagato and Koizumi had physical bodies, and could be 
seen via the naked eye. Those "things" that only dogs and not humans could detect, were they 
really spirits? 

After that, even though Sakanaka-san invited us for a cup of tea in her house, Haruhi, who was 
eager to uncover paranormal events, declined. As Sakanaka-san went to get a change of clothes, 
her mum came out to greet us guests. No matter how I look at it, Sakanaka-san's mum resembles 
an elder sister more than a mother, be it in terms of speech, fashion, or gestures. She gave me the 
impression of a perfect lady. 

Sakanaka-san's mum looked curiously at Asahina-san's miko outfit, before asking us why had we 
come here. Upon hearing our explanation, Sakanaka-san's mum laughed and said, "that girl 
spoils Rousseau too much. I'm sorry for all the trouble she's caused." Haruhi then responded as 
usual, saying it was no big deal. Being able to speak so politely in front of such a graceful 
woman, you're truly great, Haruhi. Me? I was so nervous that I found it hard to even bow, and 
even felt as if my dirty pair of sneakers would defile their doormat. 

Sakanaka-san's mum then told us that we had to stop by one day as guests, for all the trouble her 
daughter had put us through. As if on cue, Sakanaka-san finished changing into a casual outfit, 
and promptly came out to meet us. 

"Sorry for the wait." 

After leaving our bags in Sakanaka-san's house, the six of us plus one dog proceeded to exit the 
front gate, heading towards the scene of the crime. Was I the only one sighing? I guess so. 


For some reason, Haruhi had Rousseau's leash in her hand, as she led the way and sprinted 
forward. 

"Let's go, JJ!" 

'Can't you drop that stupid nickname?' I wondered as I began following her sprint. J.J. Rousseau 
didn't seem to mind that the person holding its leash was a total stranger he had just met less than 
an hour ago, as he happily ran along with Haruhi. 

"Erm, Suzumiya-san, that's not the way! We're supposed to go this way!" 


As I saw Sakanaka-san chase after Haruhi, who was laughing all the time, I suddenly wondered: 
Would the two of them wind up as good friends after all the smoke had cleared? 



Sometimes I wonder if dogs have genetic mutations or weird sicknesses that make them like to 
go for walks. Rousseau was no different, as he joyfully trotted in front of Asahina-san, who was 
smiling and trying to catch up. Even though her smile was always ravishing, for some reason I 
felt that her current smile was even more charming than before, a smile that would only appear in 
a fantasy world. 

Now since Haruhi didn't know where to go, she couldn't possibly lead the way, so she had no 
choice but to hand over Rousseau's leash to Sakanaka-san. All of us followed behind, as if taking 
a relaxed stroll. 

"Which way should we go? Can't you go faster, JJ? Hurry, hurry!" 

Haruhi, who was standing right beside Rousseau, ushered him on with her words of 
encouragement. 

"That won't do, Suzumiya-san. We're supposed to go for a walk, not a run." 

Sakanaka-san gently replied as she held onto Rousseau's leash. 

Nagato was silent, as always, while Koizumi was busy studying a map of the area. 

Curious about what Koizumi was doing, I said: 

"What's up? Spot anything mysterious on the map?" 

In response to my question, Koizumi withdrew a pen from his pocket, and said: 

"I'm marking the places dogs do not dare enter. I don't think it'll be necessary for us to go and 
search every one of them. Just a rough estimation on the map would do." 

Oh well, I'll leave this up to you then seeing that you seem to be developing a weird liking for 
drawing and shapes lately. After seeing Sakanaka-san's dog look so healthy, I'm not worried 
about anything, even though there are places that dogs really don't dare enter. All I want to do 
now is enjoy my walk with Rousseau. Speaking of which, I had a sudden urge to keep a dog as a 
pet. Of course, I didn't expect for one as expensive and as high-classed as Sakanaka-san's. A 
normal, mixed breed would be enough. It appeared that Haruhi had the same thought in her mind 
too, as she hopped along with Rousseau like a feisty little bunny, the word 'Spirits' totally driven 
out of her mind, it seems. 

The only one clad in casual clothing was Sakanaka-san. Behind her, four school uniform clad 
high school students and a miko followed. I wonder what other dogs would think of this, as we 
followed Sakanaka-san and Rousseau on their everyday path. 



Sakanaka-san walked elegantly as she led the way. Is this what she's like in school? Or is this 
part of her true personality? Based on my calculations, it seemed that we were headed due east, 
and unless I'm atrociously mistaken, we should wind up near a river soon, the one which had 
cherry-blossom trees growing by its edges. Riverbanks are really the best places for taking dogs 
out for walks after all. 

As I was busy thinking about trivial, unimportant stuff like those above, Sakanaka-san abruptly 
stopped. 

"He's stopping at the same place again." 

I quickly turned to Rousseau. He had all four of his paws planted firmly into the ground, and no 
matter how hard Sakanaka-san tried to pull him along, he wouldn't budge an inch. 

Aww~ was what his owner said, apparently disappointed. I believe everyone present felt the 
same too. 

"Huh?" 

Haruhi said as her eyes bulged wide, apparently remembering what we were truly here for. 

"I don't see anything suspicious." 

Even though we were in the middle of a residential area, due to the fact that we were 
approaching the riverbank, there were more trees growing here. I could see a huge mountain in 
the distance. From what I've heard, even though wild bears have yet to appear, there were 
sightings of a wild boar once, in this area. But if that was true, why hadn't I heard about it 
before? I had frequented the riverbank often, and to top it off, this place was situated near the 
train station. If wild boars were really sighted, wouldn't it have caused some sort of ruckus? Why 
didn't I know anything about it till now? 

Sakanaka-san was still holding on to Rousseau's leash, even though it was clearly obvious he 
wasn't going to go in any further. 

"He's always been fine with this path, right until one week ago. We would go up the stairs, walk 
along the riverbank, make a huge U-turn, and come back here, before back-tracking all the way 
back home. We've been using the same route for as long as I can remember. It all started a week 
ago, when Rousseau suddenly refused to budge, just like he is now." 

Asahina-san squatted down and began scratching behind Rousseau's ears. Upon seeing this, 
Haruhi begin tugging upon her own ear. 


"That river seems mighty suspicious. Maybe someone dumped toxic waste into it! I wonder if 
there's a factory further upstream." 



How did you come up with such an idea? We North High students should know that there was no 
such thing, because if we followed this river upstream, we would end up walking along the 
familiar path to school. And since I've been walking up that darned path for a whole year now, I 
know that there's nothing there but trees. There's not even a restaurant along the hill, never mind 
a factory. 

"Nope," Sakanaka-san said. "Rousseau has no qualms about going further upstream or further 
downstream. It's just this specific spot that troubles him. The same goes with Higuchi-san and 
Minami-san." 

"I see." 

Haruhi silently observed Rousseau while he keenly licked Asahina-san. Without warning, she 
suddenly sprang like a flash of lightning at Rousseau, and proceeded to pick him up in her arms. 

"If that's the case, JJ, let's have you first bring us to this suspicious spot! When we reach that 
specific spot, bark loudly twice to let us know!" 

Haruhi took Rousseau's leash from Sakanaka-san's hand, before proceeding to drag Rousseau 
along. But the distance she managed to cover was probably as short as the leash in her hand, 
because Rousseau started to howl pitifully the moment Haruhi began dragging him along. 

Hearing Rousseau howl like that, Sakanaka-san stood still, as if fixed to the spot. She had a 
pained expression on her face, which resembled the one Rousseau had too. It was pretty obvious 
that she didn't want to see her beloved dog in such a condition. 

"I don't want Rousseau to be mad at me." 

Sakanaka-san said as she took the leash from Haruhi's hands, before proceeding to comfort 
Rousseau by slowly patting his head. 

"I've heard stories of dogs being mad at their owners. When a cold war erupts between a dog and 
its owner, the dog would inevitably feel rejected, and soon die of a broken heart. If that were to 
happen, I don't know how I would continue to live on. So..." 

Sakanaka-san is really a dog lover, to say the least. No matter how you look at it, she has clearly 
pampered Rousseau. If I brought Shamisen to her house for one night, I'm sure it would resemble 
Heaven for him. 

Even Haruhi had nothing to say. All she could do was to look at Sakanaka-san with her mouth 
opened wide. Asahina-san, on the other hand, seemed to agree with what Sakanaka-san had said, 
as she furiously nodded her head. I really envy you, Rousseau. To think that you managed to win 
Asahina-san's heart in such a short period of time! 

"We can't drag him to somewhere he isn't willing to go." 



Koizumi said as he opened his map wide, and proceeded to say: 


"This is where we currently are." 



Haruhi took Rousseau's leash from Sakanaka-san's hand, before proceeding to drag Rousseau along. 
Using a red pen, Koizumi made a small mark on the map. 

"This is the exact spot that dogs start to sense danger. Even if we were to move along this path, I 
believe that Rousseau would feel uneasy all the way. In other words, he isn't afraid of a specific 
spot but rather, a specific area. We won't be able to pinpoint anything even if we were to venture 
further forward." 

So what are you suggesting? 

Just as I was about to open my mouth to ask, Koizumi smiled warmly and said: 

"Let's head back for the time being, and have Rousseau enjoy a stroll on another path." 

We ended up following Koizumi's suggestion, and backtracked all the way to the crossroads. 
From there, we proceeded to the left, due north. Since we were fast approaching the train station, 
the crowd was thicker, but apparently Asahina-san was more worried about Rousseau than about 
her outfit, as she totally ignored the stares of the crowd. 

Koizumi was leading the way, something he rarely had a chance to, with his map in his hands, 
his elegant smile ever present on that smooth face of his. 

"We should head here next." 


Taking a turn, we now found ourselves moving east, as we continued to follow Koizumi's lead. 



After five minutes or so... 


"Auu~" 

Rousseau abruptly stopped and refused to continue forward. 

"So it's really that river eh." 

Looking in the direction Haruhi was pointing, we found ourselves once again gazing at the river 
bank and cherry-blossom trees. 

After confirming our exact location based on a couple of signboards and number plates, Koizumi 
once again marked another spot on the map. 

"I think I get it now, but just in case, can we go to yet another place?" 

I've got no idea what Koizumi has figured out, and so I just silently follow him, walking 
northwards. Fortunately, we didn't have to backtrack this time, because Koizumi had 
conveniently chosen a place that could be reached via a couple of back lanes and alleyways. If 
we continued in this direction, I knew that we would soon reach the sea. However, I personally 
feel that the sea is far too much of an exaggeration, and I doubt Koizumi had the patience to 
track all the way towards the ocean. 

After about 5 minutes, Koizumi turned east, and we continued walking along the new path. 

3 minutes later, 

"Auu~" 

Rousseau stopped for the third time, and howled pitifully again. Seeing the doll-like Rousseau 
howl like that, even I felt troubled. Sakanaka-san immediately rushed forward to pick him up. I 
understood her feelings perfectly, and even my heart was swayed by her actions. 

Asahina-san looked as if she was about to cry, while Nagato looked indifferent than usual. 
Koizumi, however, revealed a very confident smile, as if he had understood everything, and said: 

"I see." 

Placing a final mark on his map, Koizumi turned towards us, as if ready to announce that it was 
time for us to do battle. Even though I knew that what he was about to say couldn't be good 
news, I still found myself unable to ignore him. 


So what's happening? 



I wanted to know the truth behind everything. It was as simple as that. Even though I wanted to 
totally ignore what he wanted to say, I found my curiosity getting the better of me. There! I said 
it! So hurry up and tell us what you know! 

"Take a look at this map." 

As if on cue, all of us peered at the map in Koizumi's hands. 

"These red marks indicate the specific spots Rousseau refused to ventured further within. There 
are a total of three spots, our current location included. For simplicity's sake, I'll name them A, B 
and C, with A being our first location and C being our current. Studying the three dots, do any of 
you find anything odd about them?" 

Huh? Are you trying to give us after-lesson classes or something? 

I had already given up on anything beyond my basic curriculum, and thus refused to answer his 
question. Haruhi, on the other hand, immediately answered without first raising her hand. 

"If measured in a straight line, the distance between A, B and C are the same." 

"You're sharp, Suzumiya-san. That was the reason why I had us go along these routes." 

Koizumi said happily, just like a teacher getting a perfect answer from one of his students. 

"What's important is that these points do not seem odd if viewed individually, especially point B. 
No matter how you look at it, it seems like a regular point. However, if I connect them like 
this..." 

Koizumi once again took out his red marker, and began drawing on the map. With B as the 
center point, Koizumi traced an arc from A to C, making a small ripple form on the surface of 
this 1: 10000 scale map. 

"Oh I see." 

Haruhi came to a conclusion before anyone else could. 

"Kyon, don't you get it? What does this curve look like?" 

What would a curve look like other than a curve? 

"That's why you're so bad in math! You have to use your intuition sometimes! Lend me that for a 
while, okay? Koizumi-kun." 


Using the red marker she had just acquired from Koizumi, Haruhi began drawing on the map. 



"If we extend this curve, while maintaining its original angle, and join them together, we'll get a 
perfect circle, no?" 


You've got a point there. The shape that Haruhi had just traced did resemble a perfect circle. 

Just like those circles you see indicating buried treasure in treasure maps. 

I finally understood. So that's what this is all about? 

"In other words, dogs are unable to enter this circle, right?" 

"That's merely my speculation." 

If that area is really shaped like a circle, then the places dogs dare not approach should be the 
ones outlined in this map. Even though we can't conclude if this is caused by spirits or has some 
material cause, at least we can confirm which areas they dare not enter." 

Koizumi pointed at the circle he had just created with Haruhi. 

"If there really is something behind this, then it should be somewhere in this area. And the most 
suspicious point would be the center of the circle. Since I only used these three points as 
reference, I can't really say where the center is, but I think I'll be able to make an educated guess. 
The center of the circle should be located—" 

Before Koizumi could point out the location, Haruhi had already beaten him to it, as she used the 
tip of the marker to pinpoint the exact location. 

"It's really the river, after all." 

I don't need to hear Haruhi explain any further. The center point of the circle marked on the map 
should coincide with a very long row of cherry-blossom trees. And opposite those trees would be 
a bench Asahina-san and I were definitely familiar with. 

"Incredible—" 

Sakanaka-san said in awe. 

"To think you'd be able to think of such things, Koizumi-kun, you're amazing!" 

"It's no big deal, really." 

Sakanaka-san has a very impressed look on her face, as she stares at Koizumi's smiling face. 

Erm, Sakanaka-san, I'd advise you to stay away from this fellow. There's no knowing what's 
going on in his brain. He also possesses the ability to turn himself into a glowing red orb that 
could manifest itself at any time. He's just like a mutant! 



Even though I wanted to warn Sakanaka-san about this, I found my lips tightly sealed shut, as I 
quietly studied the map. 


I just realized that unless something weird is happening to me, I would find it incredibly hard to 
travel to that location, as if someone is warning me not to go. I don't need to save yet another boy 
from an accident, do I? During that incident, only Asahina-san and I were present. This time, 
however, the SOS Brigade is fully assembled. Even if something were to happen, I'm sure at 
least someone would lend me a hand, right? 

Especially so, since the all-important Brigade Commander is here ! 

"Let's go." 

Haruhi said, appearing cheerful. 

"Let's head for this suspicious place then! Rest assured, Sakanaka-san, JJ! After we take some 
pictures of the spirits, I'll be sure to exorcise them for good!" 

"E-exorcise?" 

As if finally realizing what outfit she's wearing, Asahina-san wrapped both her arms around her 
shoulders, and began trembling. Haruhi grabbed her wrist, and said, 

"This is an emergency! We shall head out now!" 

With that, Haruhi began dragging Asahina-san, proceeding towards the river. 

Thanks to Haruhi's 'this is an emergency!' all of us got to the riverbank relatively fast. According 
to Koizumi's deductions, the most suspicious place was none other than the riverbank lined with 
cherry-blossom trees. 

Haruhi had already taken the map from Koizumi, and began staring hard at it, as if trying to find 
the most precise point of the circle. Too bad Haruhi, all your efforts are in vain. I have a feeling 
that Koizumi already has it calculated in his head. 

"Perhaps that's the spot?" 

"That side?" 

For some reason, if it ever came to it, I would find Koizumi's cool and composed answer more 
reliable than Haruhi's, who is still busy staring at the map. Could he have found out something 
suspicious? 



Only the 5 members of the SOS Brigade were present. Sakanaka-san and Rousseau were at 
home, patiently awaiting news from us. In other words, Sakanaka-san had refused to come along 
with us, stating she couldn't 'let Rousseau go to a place he detested such'. Even if she had tagged 
along, I doubt that she would have been of much use anyway, so that's why Haruhi and I didn't 
protest much about her leaving. Of course, I know that I'm one to talk, seeing that I'm just some 
random guy Haruhi picked to join her Brigade, much like a stand-in comedian somebody got off 
the streets. 

"Mikuru-chan, I'm sorry to keep you waiting. It's finally your turn to step up on the stage." 
"Y-y-y-yes." 

To Haruhi, Asahina-san was probably the most useful one in this situation. That's why she had 
Asahina-san dress up all like that. If we had journeyed all the way here without doing at least 
something which had connections with spirits, the whole miko outfit would have been a waste. 

"B-but w-what am I supposed to do?" 

"Just leave it all to me! I've done all necessary preparations beforehand! Mikuru-chan, stand over 
there. And raise your ceremonial staff high too." 

After ordering Asahina-san to stand by the riverbank and raise her ceremonial staff high, Haruhi 
withdrew a something from her pocket, which was curled into the shape of a cylinder. 

"This is it." 

Haruhi said as she put her arm menacingly on Asahina-san's shoulder. 

"Now let's start the exorcism!" 


"Vajrac... chedika?... Prajnapara...mi... ta... Ekasha...ri." 

For a while there I wondered what sort of incantation Haruhi had cooked up. It turned out to be 
nothing more than a simple Sutra of Wisdom Perfection. However, seeing Asahina-san clad in a 
miko costume chanting out Buddhist Scriptures made me feel uneasy, as if there were going to 
be a divine intervention at any moment. But if you think about it, maybe this way would be 
better. Maybe the combined forces of Shinto and Buddhism would be enough to exorcise the 
spirits. 




£1 

...seeing Asahina-san clad in a miko costume chanting out Buddhist Scriptures made me feel uneasy ; as if 
there were going to be a divine intervention at any moment. 

After looking at the Sutra Haruhi had written, and at Asahina-san frantically trying to recite the 
lines, I really feel the need to apologize to all the true priests and shrine maidens in the world. 

All I can do is silently pray they don't mind us. 

Haruhi played the role of an assistant, as she frantically flashed Asahina-san the different verses. 
"Demons be gone... Demons be gone..." 

As Asahina-san was trying to recite the verses even though she was a fake miko, I shot a glance 
at someone I knew who cared very much. I think it goes without explaining who this particular 
person is, no? 


Nagato's eyes resembled a chime in the night wind, as she gazed at Asahina-san. There was 
nothing wrong about her. It's just that her eyes were fixed on Asahina-san instead of a book this 
time. 

After seeing this, I was relieved. 

I didn't think it was going to be of any use for Asahina-san to continue on chanting like that, 
since we're not even sure if the whole ruckus is indeed caused by spirits. But one thing I know 
for sure though, is that be it spirits, paranormal events or things that science can't explain, Nagato 
was with her, and there is nothing that could escape Nagato's attention. And once Nagato 
detected something, there was no way I would fail to notice it. Of course Nagato would try to 
notify me if she had detected anything strange, just like that incident with the kamadouma. 



Perhaps she had noticed that I was staring at her, because Nagato suddenly turned her head 
towards me, as if saying, 'What are you thinking?' 

"Nothing." 

No bombs, no hibernating bears, no radioactive elements, or any weird titanium rods? 

"No." 

Not even a trace? 

"Nothing I can detect." 

Nagato replied in a monotonous voice, as if reciting her times tables. 

"No traces of anything paranormal." 

Then why were Rousseau and the other dogs afraid of this place? Shouldn't there be something 
strange or unusual here? 


Like a chime in the wind, Nagato shook her head slightly, as she shifted her gaze behind me. 

As if following her lead, I too turned back. 

A tall, well-built guy was walking upstream. As he approached us, I shot a glance at him. It's not 
like he was particularly attractive or anything, it's just that— 

He had a dog with him. A Shiba Inu to be exact. Now under normal circumstances, I wouldn't be 
surprised. After all, it was just an ordinary Shiba Inu, nothing special about it. 

The problem was, wasn't this an area where no dogs dared to enter? 

"Huh?" 

It seemed that Haruhi had finally noticed, as with Asahina-san too, for she had abruptly stopped 
chanting the verses. In her shocked state, all she could say was: 

"Impossible... How..." 

"Hmm." 

With a puzzled look in his eyes, Koizumi eyed the guy walking with his dog. 



This Shiba Inu definitely didn't share the same reaction as Sakanaka-san's Scottish Highland 
White Terrier. In fact, it looks happy, as if enjoying this walk with its owner. It was panting 
steadily as it followed its owner on all fours. 

By rough estimation, I'd say the dog's owner was a university student. He eyed us suspiciously, 
before continuing on his walk with his dog. 

"Wait a second! Wait!" 

Haruhi yelled as she jumped forward to block his path. 

"I'm sorry, but can I ask you something?" 

Haruhi eyed the Shiba Inu with a gaze so terrifying that it would halt anything in its tracks, 
before saying: 

"Can I borrow a bit of your time? Why is your dog able to pass through this area? Because you 
see... Erm, well... It's a long story." 

With that said, Haruhi grabbed me by the collar, and dragged me towards the Shiba Inu's owner. 
The guy stood there with a bemused look on his face, as if wondering, 'who are these people?' 
Even the Shiba Inu rolled out its tongue, as if saying that it didn't understand what was going on. 
Haruhi shot a slanting glance at them, before saying: 

"Come on, you tell them, Kyon!" 

Me? 

As I was about to drag Koizumi here, I found myself unable to move, undoubtedly shot by 
Haruhi's terrifying glare. Seeing that she had already dragged me along, I have no choice, do I? 

Beginning with a simple "I'm sorry for interrupting your walk", I slowly began to explain to 
them what was happening. I heard that about a week ago, the dogs in this area begin behaving 
strangely, apparently refusing to come here for a walk. After hearing about this from one of my 
friends, this struck me as highly unusual, hence I came here to investigate. The same friend I 
mentioned earlier came here with her dog, and indeed it behaved as if it didn't want to approach 
this place. That merely deepened my suspicion, and I decided to come here to investigate once 
more. Just as I was beginning my investigation, I suddenly saw you having a stroll with your 
dog, which is seemingly unaffected. That's why I was wondering, could you shed some light on 
this? 

"Oh, so that's what it is," 


Said the guy, who was probably in his twenties. As he spoke, he curiously eyed Asahina-san, 
who was still clutching the ceremonial staff in her hands. 



"It's true that sometime last week, this fellow," he said, pointing at the Shiba Inu, "suddenly 
hated his original route, which was supposed to be from here to further upstream. No matter what 
I did, he just wouldn't budge. Even I was stumped at that point." 

This athletic guy shifted his gaze to a spot between Haruhi and Asahina-san, and continued: 

"However, in my opinion, this place was still the most suitable place to have a walk. A thought 
suddenly struck me then. Why not try pulling him along by force? About three days ago, I 
decided to give it a try, as I forcefully pulled him along. Even though I met some resistance 
initially, after a while, he eventually began to get accustomed to this place again. Now we're able 
to take a stroll here like we always used to." 

While I know nothing about animal psychology, this dog looks perfectly healthy to me, as it sits 
obediently by its owner's side. It has its eyes opened wide, with a relaxed look on its face. 

"I'm guessing that if your friend pulled his or her dog along by force, they'll be able to recover 
instantly. Even though I'm not sure what happened, I definitely feel that there's something 
unusual about it. Maybe it's a scent left behind by a hibernating bear or something." 

As expected of a university student. Even his deductions were the same as Koizumi's. 

"So can I go now?" 

"Oh yes, thank you so much for your time and valuable information!" 

Haruhi thanked the guy sincerely, as he once again looked at Asahina-san's outfit. For a second 
there he looked as if he was about to say something, but in the end, all he said was "Well, take 
care then", before he continued his walk with his dog. 

And so the only ones left were Haruhi, who was still holding the Mahayana Sutras in her hand, 
Asahina-san, who resembled a miko who got lost on her way to the shrine, Nagato, who was still 
looking at the river, Koizumi, who was busy scratching his chin, and me myself. We look more 
like the Five Stooges of the SOS Brigade here. 

"What's going on here?" 

It's just like you just heard. 

"What about the spirits? I was really looking forward to spirits materializing!" 

I told you from the start there wouldn't be such a thing. 

"Then what's going on here?" 


No idea. 



" You seem to be happy about this. I wonder why, because I for one am not happy about this 

at all!" 

Are you trying to pick a fight? I've been serious all this time. I'm not happy that something you 
wished for didn't come true, and I never once wished against you either. 

"Liar." 

With that, Haruhi took off with great strides, leaving before my startled eyes. 


The SOS Brigade once again gathered, and left for Sakanaka-san's house, leaving the row of 
cherry-blossom trees far behind us. Not only did we need to report our findings to Sakanaka-san, 
we also needed to retrieve our bags, which we had left in her house before we departed. 

"But " 

Trying to avoid everyone else's gaze, I lowered my voice, and said quietly to Asahina-san. 

"What do you think the real reason is? Rousseau seemed to hate this place." 

Before Asahina-san could reply, Koizumi abruptly butted in, and said: 

"According to what that guy said, his dog had been wary of this place until three days ago. That 
means that there was something here that would arouse suspicion in his dog then, something that 
no longer exists now. From what Sakanaka-san said, other dogs, including Rousseau, dared not 
approach this place, even till now. My best bet is that there is something in their memory that 
scares them from coming here. If that Shiba Inu's owner hadn't dragged him along by force, I'd 
say that it would still be afraid of this place. Rousseau, on the other hand, clearly refuses to enter 
this place. Maybe he's got a better memory than that Shiba Inu." 


Nagato walked silently without saying anything. This made me happier, though. As long as she 
didn't mention anything, chances were that nothing out of the ordinary had happened. I could rest 
assured that no bear had recently awoken here three days ago. 

It was already dusk, and our surroundings became cooler. All of us tried to match Haruhi's swift 
footsteps, as we hurried back to Sakanaka-san's house. It was rare to get a client, and having 
everything end so abruptly without a conclusion was somewhat disappointing. If we were to 
hand in such a report to our client, I'm afraid that it'll shatter Haruhi's pride as a Brigade 
Commander. But even so, I know that she'll get over it relatively fast. Even though she had an 
angry scowl on her face, I'm sure that she'll forget everything in a while. Haruhi wasn't that kind 
of person that would obsess on lost opportunities. If something didn't turn out well in the past, 
then so be it. She would immediately focus her attention on another matter. 



As we arrived at Sakanaka-san's house, we could finally enter as guests. After being served 
delicious treats hand-made by Sakanaka-san's mother, Haruhi softened up a little, as she began 
eating in big bites. 

"This is amazing! It's really, really delicious! You could open a restaurant with these! I'm sure 
they would sell very well ! " 

In such a luxurious mansion, even the treats appeared exceptionally high-classed and the sofas 
exceptionally comfortable. If I put Shamisen on one of these sofas, I'm sure that he'll be able to 
sleep for 12 hours straight. Rich people are really different after all. With such a beautiful 
mother, and such a high-classed dog, even the atmosphere here seemed different. If Haruhi had 
been brought up in such a place, she might have even ended up like Sakanaka-san. 

As we were busy indulging in our treats, Koizumi reported our findings to Sakanaka-san, who 
was cradling Rousseau in her arms, and nodding as Koizumi went on. After Koizumi had 
finished explaining everything though, a peculiar look appeared on her face. 

"I understand what you mean, but there's still something that's bothering me." 

Sakanaka-san said as she looked at Rousseau's little, fluffy ears. 

"Rousseau still seems to dislike that place. Until the day where every other dog will have a walk 
there without being forced, I won't be bringing Rousseau along that route. It just seems too 
pitiful." 

That's up to you to decide then. What a good owner you have Rousseau, even though I think 
she's spoiling you too much. 

Seeing Haruhi and Nagato eating non-stop, Sakanaka-san's mother continued to prepare more 
and more treats for us. For some reason, our topic had suddenly shifted to Sakanaka-san's dog, 
and we laughed as she told us about Rousseau's past antics. Rousseau was slumped by Sakanaka- 
san's side, as he cocked his ears, as if trying to understand what we were saying. In the end, 
however, he seemed to lose interest, as those black eyes of his began drooping. Asahina-san was 
looking tenderly at Rousseau, her eyes full of affection. 

"You're such a good owner, Sakanaka-san. Your dog must be really happy now." 

Maybe humans weren't allowed to keep pets in the future? But to tell you the truth, I would 
choose Asahina-san over a pet any day. Clad in a maid uniform, and greeting me every day, from 
"Good morning" till "Good night", wasn't that better than having a pet? Plus, wasn't that what a 
maid was supposed to do, as opposed to brewing tea in club rooms? 


Ah who cares. It's all just a part of my fantasy anyway. 



So in the end, all we did today was visit Sakanaka-san's house, play with her dog, take him out 
for a walk, let Asahina-san recite some Buddhist Scriptures while clad in a miko outfit, and taste 
the delicious cooking of Sakanaka-san's mother before returning home. In other words, it was 
just like visiting a friend's house to play. 

After that, I thought that what really happened would remain a mystery, as the incident slowly 
disappeared from my mind and Haruhi's... 

However, a few days later, something unexpected happened. 

It was Friday. Everything had ended, including the dreaded end of term exams and intramural 
sports. Now all that mattered was to wait for the class distribution and spring holidays. The 
graduation ceremony had already been held back in February, and one third of North High 
students had already left, making the school seem more peaceful than before. After the holidays, 
however, the new stressful term would begin, and many things would change. 

The first thing that would change would be my status. I wonder if I'll have anyone to call me 
senpai? But come to think of it, I doubt anyone would join the SOS Brigade. I wonder what 
Haruhi thinks of this? 

After the second period, I found myself looking out of the second window from the back, as I 
enjoyed the warm, spring sunlight. I was beginning to stretch my arms when: 

"Kyon." 

The person sitting behind me said as she jabbed me with her mechanical pencil. 

"What is it?" 

If you want me to persuade new members to join the SOS Brigade, you can forget it. 

"That's not it. There's something else I have to tell you." 

Haruhi said as she pointed her mechanical pencil towards the front of the class. 

"Sakanaka-san didn't turn up for class today. Didn't you notice?" 

"I didn't... Is that so?" 

"Yeah. She's been absent since this morning." 


That was really shocking, hearing Haruhi talking about our other classmates ! The only others she 
had ever talked about were the idiot Taniguchi and Asakura Ryouko. 



"She's one of our clients, remember? I had originally wanted to ask her if she had resumed her 
original route, and how Rousseau was doing. Didn't you notice she wasn't here at all? Don't tell 
me you've forgotten all about her and her adorable dog, and those delicious treats too!" 

Normally, I would have been glad that Haruhi had finally shown some concern for a female 
classmate, but if she hadn't told me about this, I wouldn't have noticed at all. Sakanaka-san had 
indeed asked for our help to investigate a certain 'forbidden area' where dogs dared not approach 
near her home, but what's that got to do with her being absent? Sure, we did leave the whole case 
unsettled, but I don't see any connection between that and being absent. After all, being absent 
once in a while is hardly out of the ordinary. 

"Maybe it's because of the change in seasons that she caught a flu or something? Besides, it's 
almost the end of the school term now. Skipping a few days of class is hardly surprising." 

"Maybe you're right." 

Faced with my solid deductions, Haruhi can only agree. 

"The same goes with me. If it weren't for the SOS Brigade, I would have skipped school entirely. 
But, that doesn't strike me as something Sakanaka-san would do. She's not the type to suddenly 
turn the calendars red - or at least that's what I think." 

For someone who uses our holidays for SOS Brigade activities, I don't think you follow the 
calendar too strictly either. 

"Hmm..." 

Haruhi said as she bit her pencil. 

"Let's go check that place out one more time, shall we? We'll have Mikuru-chan dress as a nurse 
this time." 

What's the point of having someone dress up as a nurse when they don't even have basic first aid 
skills? Why don't you just admit that you want more high-class treats? 

"That's not it, you fool. I want to see JJ. Haven't you ever wondered if his fur will grow back 
after being completely shaved, like a sheep?" 

Haruhi began twirling her pencil in her hands in a bored fashion, as the bell for the third period 
rang. 


School progressed as usual, with nothing eventful happening. Soon school was over. 



Koizumi and I were once again playing chess in the clubroom, while Asahina-san, dressed in the 
maid uniform that was much more suitable for her compared to the miko costume, was busy 
brewing tea. 

Just then Haruhi, who was supposed to be late due to class duty, barged in the room and shouted: 
"Kyon, it's exactly as I thought!" 

Even though Haruhi said so with a smile on her face, I could detect an aura of anxiety radiating 
from her. I had a bad feeling about this. 

"I finally know why Sakanaka-san is absent from school. She says that she's not really well 
today." 

"But the truth is, the one who's not really well is JJ. She even brought him to a vet, but even they 
couldn't diagnose what was wrong with him. Sakanaka-san was really worried about him, and 
therefore decided to skip school. When I talked to her over the phone about it, it seemed that she 
was on the verge of tears. She hasn't eaten anything since this morning, since JJ didn't, and that 
made her feel even worse—" 

"Calm down." 

That was all I could say, faced with Haruhi who was talking non-stop, but my comment seemed 
to further anger her. She glared at me as if I were someone who refused to save a dying person, 
and said: 

"What's wrong with you? JJ's sick, and yet you can still sit down here peacefully and continue 
drinking tea? JJ hasn't drunk a sip of water so far today, and that has further weakened him!" 

If drinking tea is an offence, then Koizumi and Asahina-san should be equally found guilty. 
Furthermore, how was I supposed to know you would come barging in here, and that so many 
things had happened in the Sakanaka residence? 

"As I was doing class duty, I suddenly had the urge to phone Sakanaka-san, and when I did—" 

I am shocked. That's the second time Haruhi has said something that surprised me. I wonder 
when had they exchanged cell phone numbers? 

"Now's not the time to be doing class duty." 

Haruhi said as she withdrew her cell phone from her pocket. 

"There really is something there! I bet that it's this thing that caused JJ to fall sick! Didn't 
Sakanaka-san say that before? Other dogs in the neighborhood have also mysteriously fallen ill." 


Now that you mention it, there was something I wanted to confirm. 



If it's the same disease they're having, then — 


"It's the same sickness all right." 

Haruhi interrupted shakily. 

"I just heard from Sakanaka-san that when she brought JJ to the vet, he said that he had treated 
dogs with the same disease a few days ago. Curious, she pressed on, only to find out that the 
dogs in question were Higuchi-san's." 

Who's Higuchi-san again? 

"Oh, you're such an idiot, Kyon! Didn't Sakanaka-san tell us about her the day she came to visit 
our clubroom? Higuchi-san's the one who has many dogs. She lives near Sakanaka-san, and one 
day one of her dogs fell ill. Weren't you paying any attention then?" 

Well, pardon me for not being attentive enough! I bet that you forgot all about her until you just 
made that phone call minutes ago! Why are you blaming me then? And, even though Rousseau is 
sick now, why do you seem so excited about it? 

"What sickness is it?" 

"Didn't I say earlier? It's an unknown sickness." 

It seemed that Haruhi had forgotten all about the Commander's chair, as she continued to talk 
while standing upright. 

"Even the vets are baffled. Physically, he's perfectly fine, but it seems that he's too unmotivated 
to do anything. The same goes with Higuchi-san's Michael! They won't even budge to eat!" 

Haruhi shot her glance straight at me, as if suggesting, "it's all because of you that they're sick 
now, you moron!" I avoided her glare, and checked what the other Brigade members' reactions 
were. 

Asahina-san had apparently freaked out after learning that Rousseau was sick, because she was 
tightly hugging the tea tray in her hands. Nagato had lifted her gaze from her book, and was 
quietly listening to what Haruhi had to say. Koizumi had already put the chessboard back in its 
box. 

"We need to investigate again." 

Koizumi said while revealing a smile that resembled a vet trying to persuade a sick pet's worried 
owner not to worry. 

"This is, after all, something that Sakanaka-san asked us to help her with. Now that things have 
taken such a turn, I don't think we can just ignore it." 



T-that's right! Why don't we go visit Rousseau? 


Upon hearing Koizumi's suggestion, Asahina-san furiously nodded her head. 

Nagato merely closed her book and stood upright. 

Every Brigade member was worried about Rousseau's well-being. Even though we had only 
been together with him for a day, each member seemed to be fondly attached to him. I'm afraid 
that this is one of the qualities that only dogs possess. 

"What about you?" 

Haruhi said as she glared at me, as if picking a fight. 

"What about me?" 

Even if it was lazy old me, upon hearing that cute, doll-like dog fall sick, I couldn't just sit down 
and do nothing. Unlike Shamisen, this was a dog born with a silver bowl in its mouth, a high- 
class, pure-bred Scottish Highland White Terrier. His health shouldn't be that bad. 

I ignored Haruhi and looked at the other members. 


The girl who had assured me there was nothing wrong with that place had an unusually weird 
expression on her face. It was as if Nagato Yuki was in deep thought. 


After Asahina-san had finished changing, the five of us ran out of school, as if competing in a 
race to the station. After reaching the station, we found the train about to depart, and after 
running at full speed, barely managed to get on it. Once Haruhi put her mind to something, her 
battle capabilities easily exceeded that of a Mongolian cavalry captain. 

It didn't take us long to arrive at the high-classed neighborhood, as Haruhi anxiously pressed 
Sakanaka-san's doorbell. 

"I'm coming..." 

Sakanaka-san came to get the door. From what I could tell, it seemed that she had thinned down 
a lot, as her face was full of worry, and her eyes red from crying. 

"Please come in, Suzumiya-san. Thanks for everything..." 

The five of us entered at Sakanaka-san's invitation, and proceeded towards the hall. We 
immediately saw Rousseau sleeping lazily on the elegant sofas. Maybe it was due to his bad 



mood, but the glistening luster that used to be present on his snow white fur was gone. As he slid 
down the sofa, he passed us without bothering to lift his head for a glance, nor did he bother to 
wag his tail or move his ears. 

"Rousseau-chan..." 

Asahina-san was the first one to approach Rousseau. She knelt down and patted Rousseau's small 
nose, which in turn caused him to look back at her with his little black, sad eyes. After that, he 
laid down on the floor, as if too lazy to do anything else. Even when Asahina-san placed her 
hand on his little head, Rousseau merely responded by flicking his ears. There was something 
very wrong with him, all right. 

"When did he start behaving like this?" 

Haruhi asked. Sakanaka-san wearily replied: 

"Around yesterday evening. At first, I thought that he was just tired and wanted to take a nap, but 
when I woke up this morning, I found him slouched on the same spot, not moving at all. He even 
ignored his dinner. That's why I didn't bring him for a walk this morning, and instead took him to 
the vet..." 

Everything had happened just like Haruhi had said in the club room. Right now, we could 
confirm two things: One - the reason of the disease was unknown, and two - it was the same 
disease some other dog had earlier. 

"Yes... Higuchi-san's Michael is good friends with Rousseau..." 

Asahina-san slowly patted Rousseau's head, as if comforting a patient using her tenderness. Her 
sadness seemed infectious, as even I was beginning to feel sorry for Rousseau. In order to stop it 
from spreading, I secretly punched myself in the chest. 

"Oh yes, there's something I would like to ask." 

Said the shameless Koizumi. 

"If I'm not mistaken, Higuchi-san's Michael should have been infected by this disease five days 
ago, right? If so, how is his condition now?" 

"I gave Higuchi-san a call this afternoon. According to her, Michael's still as weak-spirited as 
before. Because he refuses to eat anything, Higuchi-san is forced to bring him to the vet for 
nutrition shots. If the same thing happens to Rousseau, what am I going to do?" 

If things go on like this, he'll become weaker and weaker. Thinking back about the energetic 
Rousseau I had met just days ago, compared to this lifeless dog lying on the ground, I suddenly 
realized how big the difference was. I also thought about Shamisen lying down on my bed lazily, 



without moving at all, but I guess they're totally different circumstances, huh. This is worrying, 
all right. 


"There's another thing I would like to ask." Koizumi continued. "Are Michael and Rousseau the 
only dogs who are infected with this particular illness? You seem to know many friends who 
have dogs in this neighborhood." 

"I haven't asked anyone else, but it was only when Michael fell ill that the rumors spread. If other 
dogs had fallen ill too, I'm sure that I would have heard about it somehow." 

"Then where does Michael's owner, Higuchi-san, live?" 

"Erm, just opposite my house, three houses away... Why?" 

"Nah, it's nothing." 

Koizumi said as he finished his questioning session. 

Sakanaka-san lowered her head and said: 

"Spirits are really behind everything, eh? Even the vet didn't seem to know what was going on..." 
Haruhi replied with her face full of anxiety: 

"There's always a possibility... But it's definitely strange. Plus, we can't be sure if spirits are 
really the cause. Now's not the time to be playing around though." 

From the look on Haruhi's face, it seems that she may regret wishing for how spirits would come 
flying, and how she made Asahina-san dress up as a miko and start chanting some weird 
Buddhist Scriptures. Now you know that it's impossible to exorcise spirits by merely dressing as 
a miko, eh? Haruhi is really troubled, all right. 

"Yuki, did you notice anything odd?" 

Even though it's rare for Haruhi to ask Nagato anything, upon hearing her request, she politely 
put down her bag, walked towards Rousseau and knelt down beside a worried Asahina-san, 
before staring at Rousseau straight in the face. 

I stood beside her and watched, not daring to even take a breath. 


Nagato placed her finger beneath Rousseau's chin, lifted his head, and looked straight into 
Rousseau's small, black eyes. She had a very serious look in her eyes, like a sensor trying to read 
data off a DVD. She brought her head closer to Rousseau, until they practically touched each 
other, and stared like that for 30 seconds. 



Nagato slowly stood up like a drifting spirit and redirected her gaze at the original spot she was 
standing before. Very slowly, she shook her head. 


Haruhi sighed loudly. 

"Even Yuki can't tell anything, huh. Sigh..." 

I don't know what she expected from Nagato, but it seems that the current situation is out of 
Nagato's simple healing powers. Even aliens had no cure, eh? Just as I was about to despair, I 
suddenly felt a strong gaze penetrate my back. 

I turned to look back, only to see Nagato staring straight at me. Her eyes could probably see 
things smaller than a microscope; she suddenly nodded, then drifted away again. 

Haruhi, Asahina-san and Sakanaka-san must have missed Nagato's actions, seeing that they were 
too occupied with Rousseau. But there was one person I knew who would always be watching 
Nagato-san's every move. 

"I think it's time to head back." 

Koizumi whispered into my ear. 

"There's nothing we can do even if we remain here. That includes you and me." 

Koizumi gave me a soft laugh before continuing. Don't keep on whispering in my ear. It's gross. 

"Even though Suzumiya-san has yet to explode in fury, from the looks of it, she can't calm down 
either. You know what Suzumiya-san does when she's enraged. If she does go on a rampage, I'm 
afraid that even I'll be terrified. We need to end this soon, and the only one who can do that 
would be — " 

Koizumi elegantly turned his head towards Nagato, then turned back to wink at me. Ugh. That's 
disgusting. 

'What do you mean?' was what I was about to say, but I had a feeling that Koizumi knew that I 
understood what he meant perfectly. Maybe it's because I'm a smart person overall. Why is it that 
I can be so smart when it comes to reading Nagato's facial expressions or Koizumi's hidden 
clues, but fail to answer every single test question? Sigh. All right then, but please note that I'm 
not doing this for your sake, Koizumi. I just don't want to have Rousseau and Sakanaka-san 
dragged into all of this. 


I may get beaten up for that. 



After leaving Sakanaka-san's house, it seemed like Haruhi and Asahina-san had each left part of 
their soul there with Rousseau, as they continued lifelessly towards the station. They were silent 
all the way to the station, in the station, and even after leaving the station, just like breathing 
corpses. It seems that Sakanaka-san's depression has infected them as well. 

I understand these feelings of depression well. Seeing something so lively and energetic become 
so frail and sickly is a painful process. But instead of being cooped up in depression, we would 
be better off taking a stroll to soothe our minds. Besides, there's nothing we outsiders can do. 
After all, we aren't dog experts — That was Koizumi's icy conclusion. 

"The only thing we can do is standby and watch. But don't worry. The vets aren't idiots. They 
must be formulating a plan now, right?" 

If only they could find out what the cause of the disease was via research. But what if they 
couldn't? I don't want to attend Rousseau's funeral, for certain. 

"It's a good thing I know a few vets. I'll try giving them a call. Maybe they've got leads on this." 

Even though Koizumi was trying his best to cheer the girls up, it didn't seem to be working on 
Haruhi and Asahina-san at all. They remained silent aside from the occasional 'Oh's and 'Hmm's. 

Since it was pointless continuing on in this somber mood, the five of us decided to call it a day. 

If we hadn't done so, we would all probably still be stuck in front of the station, staring blankly 
into space. 

As Haruhi and Asahina-san shuffled forward, Koizumi and I stayed behind. We usually take the 
same path as Haruhi, seeing that it was closer to our homes, but Haruhi didn't seem to notice this. 
After a while, the two of them gradually disappeared from our sight. 

How I wish Asahina-san had stayed behind! It's a pity then. It seems that she won't be able to 
step up on the stage this time. 

After witnessing the two girls head home, Nagato turned and started towards her own apartment. 
However, all she did was face the direction of her apartment. She herself remained rooted on the 
spot. 

"Nagato." 

As the short haired, sailor-suit clad girl turned back to face me, I wondered if she had predicted I 
would call her name? 

Upon looking at the expression on her face, I was sure that she knew something. Without 
wasting any time, I asked her: 


What's up with Rousseau? 



Nagato hesitated a while, before answering: 


"Data lifeforms." 

After listening to her 'explanation', the only thing I could do was remain silent. 


Is she aware that I'm not sure what she's saying? Sensing my confusion, Nagato added: 
"Paragenetic silicon-based data lifeforms." 


As if sensing that I was still lost, Nagato opened her mouth to say something. However, she 
abruptly shut it, and fell silent once again, as if not wanting to add anymore. 


And so the both of us looked at each other in silence. 

"In other words, Rousseau is infected by some other-worldly being, am I right?" 

Koizumi suddenly interjected, as if attempting to create a shortcut of his own. Nagato paused for 
a moment, as if seeking confirmation from someone, before replying: 

"Yes." 

Nagato then nodded her head. 

"So that's how it is. These 'data lifeforms' are actually things that humans aren't capable of 
seeing. Or to be more precise, things that human beings can't possibly see, since they don't have 
an actual physical form. They merely 'exist', am I right?" 

"Does that mean that they are beings similar to the Integrated Data Sentient Entity? Much like 
the kind that infected the Computer Society President's computer and spread via the Internet?" 

"Compared to the Integrated Data Sentient Entity, they are of different status. They are classified 
as a more primitive being." 

"So are there any similarities between them? If the Integrated Data Sentient Entity decided to 
latch on to a human being, just like the 'Paragenetic Silicon-based Data Lifeforms' decided to 
infect Rousseau, would there be a similar result?" 



He's really something special, that Koizumi. How he managed to remember that long, 
complicated name after hearing it just once I have no idea. Faced with Koizumi's incoming 
barrage of questions, Nagato calmly replied: 

"Viral." 


"What do you mean by 'viral'? The dog's body, no, the dog's mind, was the first to display any 
irregularities... Does that mean that these symptoms are caused by the 'data lifeforms' breeding 
rapidly in Rousseau's body, just like viruses do?" 

Koizumi asked this as he flicked his hair with his finger. 

"And one more thing - What are these 'data lifeforms' doing on earth? Why are they infecting 
dogs?" 

"Perhaps," 

Nagato replied simply. 

"Because of the silicon that is present in their data composition, they are attracted to the Earth's 
gravity, just like how meteors are. The silicon compositions were destroyed due to friction with 
the Earth's atmosphere, leaving behind only the data composition. Even if their physical silicon 
bodies were destroyed, their data compositions weren't. This is why they can continue to remain 
on the Earth." 

"They happened to be scattered around the area where the dogs frequently had walks. As the 
unsuspecting dogs passed by, they took the opportunity to latch onto them." 

"Maybe it's because these 'Silicon Lifeforms' have nervous structures similar to those of dogs." 

"But since they are an external lifeform after all, they have caused the dogs to weaken after 
infecting them." 

During this endless Q & A session with Koizumi, Nagato opened and shut her mouth rapidly. 
After Koizumi's questions had apparently ended, she opened her mouth again and said: 

"These 'data lifeforms' are planning to expand their memory circuit." 

What does that mean— 

Even though I was lost in the dark, Koizumi seemed to have understood perfectly. 



"One dog wasn't enough to perform such a feat, and I don't think two are sufficient either. In 
order to expand their brains to the sizes of the 'Silicon data lifeforms' memory capabilities, how 
many dogs would that take?" 

"According to the minimum estimations of the 'Silicon data lifeforms' memory capabilities, it 
would require at least every single dog on the planet to perform a large scale data transmission..." 

"Wait a second." 

I had a very bad feeling about this. 

"Rousseau and some other dog are infected by some cosmic virus, this I understand. These 
viruses originated from outer-space and are like meteors, this I understand too. But the one thing 
I want to know is, in the wide universe, aside from humans like us, and these 'data lifeforms' 
which are made up of an accumulation of data as you said, Nagato... What else is out there?" 

Nagato fell silent, as if in deep thought, before she blinked once and said: 

"The answer to this question would be incomprehensible to organic lifeforms like you." 

She stared at me with her clear eyes, as if trying to draw me into her pupils. 

"But as these 'Silicon-based data lifeforms' have thought processors within their composition, it 
is very likely that other similar lifeforms exist." 

That's easy for you to say. I know that I'll never sleep well after learning the answer to this 
question. 

Since I've already come this far, I might just as well ask her more. 

"What is this 'silicon' you keep mentioning?" 

Sorry about that. I don't get along well with my chemistry teacher, and my chemistry grades have 
never been good either. 

"Simply put, it is the silicon element, Si," 

Koizumi answered. 

"It's a very famous semi-conductor." 

Koizumi then threw Nagato another deep smile. 

"I think what Nagato-san mentioned earlier is what we call a 'Mechanically Subconscious being'. 
It's another form of Artificial Intelligence we humans have yet to discover. Somewhere in the 
huge universe is a type of 'Mechanical Sub-consciousness' that is not artificially manufactured. 



In other words, it is a non-living thing that has the ability to process thoughts on its own. Or 
maybe I should say that throughout the entire universe, these beings are fairly common. It's just 
us humans that are different." 

Nagato, on the other hand, was totally ignoring what Koizumi had to say as she continued to 
stare at me. It was as if she were trying to tell me the key to everything. 

I suddenly recalled the first time Nagato lent me a book. There had been a single bookmark in it, 
and from the instructions written on the bookmark, I had gone out to meet Nagato for the first 
time. It was then that she told me— 

— It is impossible for organic lifeforms, who have limited data collection and transmission 
ability, to be able to acquire knowledge. 

Koizumi scratched his chin instinctively. 

"Maybe these 'Silicon compositions' are no more than ordinary materials. Only after the 'Data 
lifeforms' latched onto them did they gain knowledge." 

Nagato looked up at the sky, made a gesture that suggested she was acquiring permission, before 
assuming her original pose and saying: 

"Knowledge..." 

She made a brief pause, before continuing: 

"Is based on how much data one has collected and accumulated based on one's current data 
handling abilities." 

Nagato hasn't spoken for so long in quite a while. The last time I remember her ever talking for 
so long was when she revealed to me her identity as a humanoid interface for the Integrated Data 
Sentient Entity. It seems that if a topic catches her attention, she'll go on talking on and on about 
it. 

"The 'Data composition' resides in the 'Silicon composition'. Through mutual interaction, they 
are able to assist one another in thought processes. These 'Data lifeforms' are nothing more than 
isolated data clusters. In order to obtain new data, they attach themselves to any suitable material 
present. Both parties form a mutual interaction for their individual benefit." 

But what about these so-called 'Silicon lifeforms'? Lifeforms that can survive even after 
immolation within the Earth's atmosphere? 

"They are lifeforms that have reached an evolutionary dead end," 


Nagato said simply. 



"They are capable of nothing else save thought processes. The universe is very, very wide. These 
lifeforms constantly drift around the universe, because they are capable of processing nothing 
more than thoughts of self preservation. 

Then what are they doing, drifting all around the universe? 

"Their thought pattern is not something that organic lifeforms like you can relate to, because of 
the inconsistencies between basic thought patterns." 

So it seems that we can't interact with them. Then I guess there's no point of calling in NASA to 
investigate. Even though contact was made, it would serve no point. 

"Sheesh." 

How in the world did Sakanaka-san's 'spirits' turn into cosmic beings? Isn't this exaggerating too 
much? And forget knowledge or thought patterns. I couldn't even understand one of Nagato's 
science fiction novels. 

So it's hard to put this to an end, eh. It wasn't something modern science could explain, 
philosophers could understand, or religion could solve. Unseen 'Data lifeforms' composed mainly 
of 'Silicon'... A simple way to put it would be 'spirits', eh? 

"Probably." 

A weird thought suddenly struck me. The first time Sakanaka-san approached us, she had told us 
some rumors about spirits. 

"Do spirits really exist?" 

'Data lifeforms' without any physical being that came from outer space. Even though their 
'physical silicon compositions' were destroyed, they continued to live on by depending on their 
'data compositions'. After landing on Earth, they would latch on, or possess, any suitable host 
they found. Would these qualify as spirits? 

"What about humans? We have our own thought processes and consciousness too. Do you mean 
to tell me that even after I die one day, my soul will continue to live on?" 

Oh whatever — No wait, on second thought, I couldn't take things so lightly this time. This was 
something important, after all. To know whether I continued to exist after my death was an 
important thing I needed to know. I dare say that Nagato's answer here will influence my entire 
life. 

Nagato didn't reply. She had a very weird expression on her face. I couldn't tell what it was, but I 
knew that something was off. Even if no one were to notice it, I would always be able to read 
Nagato's emotions. After all, I've been together with her for almost an entire year now. All the 
time spent observing her this past year has been sufficient to read her emotions, I dare say. Plus, 



there were many incidents last year that practically forced me to read her emotions. So, I don't 
think that I'm wrong on this one. 

Nagato — 


Was still not willing to say anything. And her expression was definitely weird. It was as if she 
was trying to tell me something — 


Nagato looked at me, as if I had just cracked a lame joke. Can't you at least smile? 
Nagato's response finally came. Needless to say, it was very short and simple. 
"That's classified information." 


I heard a very loud sigh, before realizing that I was the one who had emitted it. Classified 
information, eh. Now where have I heard that before? The next time someone asks me a question 
I don't understand, I'm going to reply 'Classified Information'. I think I'll try it out the next time a 
teacher asks me something in class. 

Has Nagato ever cracked a joke before, ever since the day she was born? This was another 
question I had in mind, but let's ignore it for the time being. Now we should be focusing on 
Rousseau, and how do we rid him of that pesky cosmic virus. 

"Just think of a way to get rid of that virus, okay, Nagato?" 

"Alright." 

Nagato seemed very reliable whenever she said that. 

"First we have to force the 'data compositions' into submission, before attempting to compress 
them into the smallest size possible. We will then need to render their activities to zero, and this 
can only be done using a working network interface." 

Even though I had no idea what she was talking about, I could tell that it was very troublesome. 
Can't we just exterminate them altogether? 

"We cannot exterminate them." 


'Why? 



Because it is not allowed. 


Your bosses aren't allowing you to exterminate them? 

"Yes." 

Don't these 'Data lifeforms' pose a threat towards the universe? 

"They are actually beneficial towards the universe." 

They seem more like lactobacilli or Escherichia coli to us humans though. 

I think it's time to pass this annoying soccer ball to Koizumi. Seeing him standing there with a 
bemused look on his face made me angry, for some reason. 

"Why don't we just stuff these Silicon beings into a container, and shoot them back into outer 
space with a rocket? Your 'Organization' should be able to handle such a simple feat, no?" 

Koizumi gently shrugged his shoulders, before saying: 

"First of all, we would need a silicon casting container to place them in. After that, if we 
organize some big scale economical or political activities, we should be able to amass enough 
funds to purchase a Hydrogen Rocket. The only problem lies in capturing these Silicon 
lifeforms." 

So you can't do it after all. No... Wait a second... 

Something suddenly flashed in my mind. Not long ago, Tsuruya-san had dug up something 
strange from the mountain behind her house, and it was probably dated back the Genroku period. 
Can't we use that now? That mysterious object from the past? 

According to Tsuruya-san, that rod was made out of titanium-cesium alloy. If her ancestor had 
unveiled such a device during the Genroku period, even Y amataikoku would become a peaceful 
place to live. Since he had no idea how to use it, or how to dispose of it, the only things he 
thought of were to seal it up and preserve it for the future. I really don't want to stumble upon 
one of those things again. Let's just hope that this is pure coincidence. 

As I was lost deep in my thoughts, Koizumi's voice drifted by my ears, forcefully pulling me 
back to reality. 

"It's a good thing the current situation isn't too urgent. We only know of two dogs that have this 
current sickness, the first being the one mentioned by Sakanaka-san, and the second being 
Rousseau. There is a margin of five days before Rousseau was affected, so if we think of 
something these few days, we should be able to prevent more similar cases from happening." 



But time on Earth is different from time in the Universe, right? Should we be happy that these 
viruses had decided to adopt Earth's time? 


"We'll go visit Sakanaka-san again tomorrow. Even though it's a weekend, I think we'd better 
think of an excuse before visiting her. It would seem very suspicious if we were to visit her two 
times in a row. Oh and we'll have to think of an excuse to see Higuchi-san too..." 

That was as far as I listened to. You should be the one to take care of such excuses, since we've 
already troubled Nagato with the task of finding a cure. 

"So we'll meet tomorrow. I'm sorry to trouble you, but we're counting on you, Nagato." 

Just like how Haruhi and Asahina-san seemed to have left their souls in Sakanaka-san's house, I 
too seemed to have lost my spirit. My head was spinning with thoughts of other-worldly beings 
and cosmic lifeforms. As I was ready to leave for my house, I suddenly felt as if someone was 
pulling me strongly from behind. What was it now? 

I turned around, only to find Nagato pointing at my belt, not saying anything. If you want to get 
my attention, Nagato, couldn't you have at least said something? Or tug my sleeve or something. 
However, seeing that I had asked her for a favor, I decided to remain silent about this matter. 

Nagato moved her lips, without a change in facial expression. 

"Preparations need to be made." 

"What do you need?" 

"A cat." 

Just as I was about to utter out an astonished 'Huh', Nagato quickly opened her mouth, as if she 
had expected it, and said: 

"I would like to use your cat." 


After Koizumi, Nagato and I had finished planning our battle strategies, we each headed back to 
our respective houses. As I was on my way home, I took out my cell phone and gave Haruhi a 
call. 

"Hello, Haruhi? It's me. Now about Rousseau, after you had went home just now, Nagato said 
that she had read about Rousseau's condition somewhere in a book before... Yes, there was even 
a cure for it. They even guarantee that he'll recover... Oh, yes I understand. Should we give it a 
try? Nagato says she knows what to do, so I'm hoping that we can go to Sakanaka-san's house 
again tomorrow... What, now? That's too demanding, don't you think? We haven't even done the 
necessary preparations yet. We'll head there after gathering tomorrow. Don't worry, Nagato says 



that his condition won't worsen... Yea, so I'm asking you to inform Sakanaka-san about it. Oh 
and by the way, there's another dog with the similar illness right? Higuchi-san's Michael... Tell 
Sakanaka-san to bring him along to her house tomorrow. I'll inform Asahina-san about this. So, 
we'll meet at 9 tomorrow, at our regular spot before the station." 


When I arrived at the station the next day, all the members of the SOS Brigade had already 
gathered. Even though I had arrived 20 minutes before the scheduled time. 

However, the only ones who looked normal were Nagato and Koizumi. Asahina-san had a very 
worried look on her face, while Haruhi looked like someone who had invested all her money into 
purchasing the day's lottery, and was eagerly looking forward for the winning number to be 
revealed. 

"You're late!" 

Haruhi said while giving me a very weird glance. 

This was one of those rare days where I wasn't required to treat all Brigade members for a drink. 
Haruhi grabbed my wrist, and pulled me towards the train station. 

"I heard everything from Koizumi-kun before you came," Haruhi said as she bought tickets for 
everyone. "But is it true that Yuki knows an obscure folk remedy for that illness, Hinekobyou?" 

Hinekobyou? What's that? Some kind of new species found in Polynesia? 

"It's the disease that Yuki suspects is infecting Rousseau." 

After receiving my ticket from Haruhi, I hurried over to the automated gates. Trying to cover up 
for my previous slip, Koizumi said: 

"If an active dog suddenly loses all its motivation and lies down lazily like a cat in the sun, 
they're suspected to have this particular disease. It's a very rare disease that isn't even recorded in 
medical books. Some experts say that it isn't a disease but merely over-tiredness." 

Koizumi shot me a glance, as he continued: 

That's what I heard from Nagato-san, who seems to have read about it in an old book." 

Abruptly, as if agreeing to everything that had been said, Nagato slowly nodded her head. So 
they discussed this earlier on, eh. 


Nagato looked at the plastic bag in Koizumi's hands, which bore the infamous supermarket logo, 
before shifting her gaze to the cardboard box in my hand. 



Meow- 


Shamisen purred as he began scratching the walls of the cardboard box with his claws, as if 
trying to say 'hi' to Nagato. 

Haruhi gazed strangely at the box in my hands. 

"To think that you'd require a cat to cure a disease, what a strange sickness indeed. Are you sure 
this'll work, Yuki? Can we trust that book?" 

From the way things seemed, exorcising Rousseau may be a better word to substitute for 'cure'. 
But of course, I couldn't say that to Haruhi. For once I appreciated Nagato's silence. 

Without uttering a word, Nagato nodded her head lightly, as she stretched her hand towards me. 
That's too bad, Nagato. Even if you offer me your hand, there's nothing I can give you. Even my 
hands are full carrying this Shamisen in this lousy box. 

"Cat." 

Nagato said in an emotionless monotone. 

"Lend him to me." 


After entering the train, I placed the cardboard box on Nagato's lap, thus freeing my hands of 
their burden. Maybe it's because we're in the train, but Nagato sat eerily still without saying 
anything at all, as if she were trying to tell me something. Shamisen too quieted down, as he laid 
down still in his box. 

As if trying to sandwich Nagato in-between, Haruhi and Asahina-san each sat beside Nagato. It 
was then that they finally noticed the box, and that Shamisen was lying inside. However, 
compared to him, I think the plastic bag in Koizumi's hands is more suspicious. 

"Don't worry. All necessary preparations are complete." 

Haruhi shouldn't be able to listen to two men chatting by the train door. Koizumi shook the 
plastic bag, and said: 

"Since I only had one night to prepare this, I must say that it's not really good, but it's the best I 
can do. The rest is up to Nagato-san." 

I had faith in Nagato's abilities. I believed that she could cure Rousseau, all right. What I'm 
worried about, however, is what she's going to do with those cosmic viruses. 



"That's where I come into play. Even though I'm saying this based purely on intuition, things 
shouldn't turn out to be too complicated. Just look at Suzumiya-san. The most important thing for 
her now is to have Rousseau cured. Once this is done, my mission will be accomplished." 

Let's hope that things go so smoothly. 

I avoided Koizumi's glance, and tightened my grip on the handrails, as the train picked up speed. 
There were only two stations left to Sakanaka-san's neighborhood. There wasn't much time left 
to think. 


The Sakanaka-san that came out to welcome us today was completely similar to the one who had 
greeted us yesterday, but maybe it's because there was a sliver of hope that I detected a faint aura 
of determination in her eyes. 

"Suzumiya-san..." 

Sakanaka-san sounded as if she was about to cry. Haruhi's expression turned serious, as she 
nodded her head, before turning back to face the most outstanding member of the SOS Brigade, 
who was dressed in a school uniform that seemed to be specially made for her. 

"Just leave it to us, Sakanaka-san. Even though she may not look like it, Yuki's actually a very 
knowledgeable and capable girl. I'm sure JJ will be fine in a moment." 

We entered the living room once again, only to find Sakanaka-san's mother and another woman 
waiting for us there. Based on her looks alone, I'd say she's a university student. She's probably 
Higuchi-san, whose dog was also infected by the same disease - this I guessed based on the 
worried expression on her face. The little terrier in her hands should be Michael. 

Rousseau was still as unhealthy as he was yesterday, as he lay still on the sofa, not moving at all. 
Even though his eyes were open, he seemed to be spacing out, as if staring straight into 
something no one else could see. The same went for Michael. 

I think it's about time we began. I looked at Nagato and Koizumi. 

The three of us had decided yesterday that we would leave Nagato in charge. I would serve as 
her assistant, while Koizumi was to prepare all the needed equipment. Even though I have no 
idea where he got it, I was relieved that I could rely on him at times like this, because I had no 
idea where we were supposed to get a silicon container from. 

The first thing I did was draw the curtains shut, blocking all forms of sunlight from entering the 
room. I then proceeded to turn off the lights, so that in the end the room was almost pitch dark. I 
retrieved a big, thick candle from Koizumi's plastic bag, before placing it on a big altar. I lit the 
candle, then lit some joss sticks, also placing them on the altar. As I did so, the living room was 
filled with all sorts of weird smoke and aromas. After that, I gave Nagato a signal. 



Nagato took Shamisen from the box, and cradled him in her arms. Truth to be told, Shamisen 
detested being carried this way, and he would normally scratch and claw his way out of it. 
However, seeing him remain totally still and silent made me realize that even he couldn't hope to 
stand against the prowess of the alien Nagato. 

"Excuse me... Is it alright if you place that dog beside Rousseau?" 

I asked to the young, tastefully dressed Higuchi-san who, upon seeing us set up everything as if 
it were a ritual, had begun eyeing us suspiciously. But in the end, she followed what I said, and 
soon there were two lifeless dogs lying on the sofa, looking as if their spirits had been extracted 
out of their bodies forcefully. 

Carrying Shamisen in her arms, Nagato headed towards the sofa, before kneeling down. 

Seeing that all preparations were now complete, I pressed the 'Play' button on an electronic tape 
recorder. Pretty soon, a piece of weird, eerie music filled the air. To tell you the truth, I was 
beginning to wonder if we had gone too far; but as Koizumi said, if we're going to do something, 
we might as well go all the way. 

In the midst of flickering candlelight, mysterious aromas and weird music, Nagato began her 
strange ritual. 


Even in this dark room, Nagato still appeared as pale and emotionless as ever. She slowly placed 
her left hand on Rousseau's head and stroked it a few times, then put her right hand on 
Shamisen's forehead. Even though he was in a totally unfamiliar room with two dogs, Shamisen 
still lay down quietly without making a sound. 






In the midst of flickering candlelight, mysterious aromas and weird music, Nagato began her strange 
ritual. 


Nagato even placed Shamisen before Rousseau's nose, until both their nose tips touched. Very 
slowly, Rousseau's black, beady eyes began to move, as Shamisen's wide opened eyes began to 
slowly close. As if trying to transfer something from Rousseau into Shamisen, Nagato frequently 
stroked their heads alternatively with her hands. The same thing was happening to Michael, as 
Nagato's lips moved silently, as if she was chanting something. We couldn't hear what was she 
chanting, but it did make me wonder if she did this on purpose. I think the only ones to realize 
this were Koizumi and I. 

Finally, Nagato pressed Shamisen's forehead firmly upon both dog's nostrils, before standing up, 
and, without uttering a word, placed Shamisen back in his original cardboard box. She then 
picked up the box, returned it to me, and finally said: 

"It's over." 

Of course, everyone present could only stare at her without saying anything. Even I, with the 
cardboard box in my hand, didn't know what to say, never mind Haruhi, Asahina-san or 
Sakanaka-san. 

Haruhi stood there with her mouth opened wide, as if wanting to say something, but didn't know 
what to say. After a while, she finally managed to choke out: 

"It's over? Right now? Yuki? What did you do just now?" 

Nagato turned her head, and looked at both dogs, as if telling us 'These are the ones you should 
be looking at'. Taking a hint, I turned towards the sofa. 

And on the sofa— 

Even though the two dogs appeared pretty confused to me, I could tell from their eyes that they 
had already regained their energy. The looks on their cute faces suggested that they were looking 
for their owners... 

"Rousseau!" 

"Michael!" 

Sakanaka-san and Higuchi-san immediately ran forward and hugged their beloved dogs tightly. 
The two dogs let out a simultaneous "woof-" and began licking at their owner's faces. They 
wagged their tails rapidly, as if in response to their owners' sudden actions. Even Asahina-san 
wept tears of joy. 

After a few minutes, this living room finally reverted to its original lively state, as if a dark, 
depressing curse had finally been lifted. 



As Rousseau and Michael were in the kitchen busy indulging in the cooking of Sakanaka-san's 
mother, we of the SOS Brigade sat on the sofa, together with Sakanaka-san and Higuchi-san. 


"What you just witnessed was Nagato performing an old folk remedy by using cats as a form of 
treatment." 

Even though I could tell that Koizumi's story was a lousy one, it seemed that his charming smile 
and fluent speech had everyone else fooled. 

"The candles and joss sticks contain special spices that dogs are especially sensitive to, thanks to 
their superior sense of smell. The weird music we played earlier apparently helps them relax." 

Even though I felt that crap should only be spouted to a certain degree, for this once, I let 
Koizumi spout as much crap as he wanted to. All that mattered was that Rousseau and Michael 
were back to normal, and everyone was happy. Higuchi-san should be happier than the whole lot 
of us, seeing that her dog was now fine, and Sakanaka-san's mother should have been even 
happier, now that both her beloved dog and her daughter were back to normal. In order to show 
us her gratitude, she prepared more high-class treats for us, which Haruhi had no qualms about 
devouring. 

But of course, the happiest of us all was undoubtedly Sakanaka-san. 

"You're really something, Nagato-san. You managed to cure a disease that even professional vets 
know nothing about!" 

"That's to be expected of Yuki! She's the most capable member of the SOS Brigade after all." 

Nagato said nothing, but instead continued to devour the treats. Haruhi, on the other hand, was 
busy talking non-stop. 

"Yuki reads a lot, that's why she's so knowledgeable! To top it off, she's also really good with the 
guitar, baking, and sports too!" 

"It's a good thing Nagato read about this disease from an old book of hers," 

Koizumi added as he elegantly sipped his tea. 

"It seems that even modern science can't prove why traditional folk medicine have such healing 
properties. Maybe old folk remedies aren't such bad things after all." 

If you continue on like this, Koizumi, everyone will know that you're nothing but a liar. 

Having served their purpose, the candles and joss sticks were carelessly thrown back into the 
plastic bag. I had initially thought of taking Shamisen out from his cardboard box, but decided 
against it after considering the fact that he might leave a few claw marks on Sakanaka-san's 
expensive furniture. He had begun meowing madly ever since he left Nagato's arms, and was 



frantically scratching at the walls of the box. If he were to scratch any of Sakanaka-san's 
furniture, I don't think I'd be let off the hook with just a few stern warnings. Having this in mind, 
I ignored him, hoping that he would eventually go back to sleep. 

To tell you the truth, the various equipment there were purely for aesthetic purposes only. The 
one who played the biggest role in this was Shamisen himself, but this was something only 
Nagato, Koizumi and I knew. 

All Nagato had to do now was freeze the data lifeforms solid. That was all she needed to do. 

We had originally planned for Nagato to just freeze the data lifeforms within both dogs. 
However, even though it was the simplest approach, it could also produce nasty side-effects. 
Even if Higuchi-san's Michael or Sakanaka-san's Rousseau one day died, the data lifeforms 
would still remain in their bodies. There was also a possibility that the data lifeforms would 
suddenly unfreeze and infect their hosts once again. That's why the best way we could think of 
was to transfer these lifeforms into another organic host and closely monitor them. Any organic 
host would do — even Haruhi and me. However, Nagato had specifically requested that 
Shamisen be the host, because the lifeforms wouldn't be of any harm to Shamisen apparently. 
This was a cat that once had the ability to speak in human tongue, even though only for a short 
time. I don't think inserting a couple of cosmic lifeforms in him would do him any harm. Even if 
there might be nasty side effects, we wouldn't have to worry, since I would be the first one to 
notice. That's what we decided. 

'Oh well,' I thought, 'I don't mind being a sacrificial goat for this operation too much,' as I stuffed 
another high-class treat into my mouth. 

Even though this had begun as an unfortunate disaster for Sakanaka-san, the perpetrator behind 
the disaster had been transferred into my cat. Can someone here please feel sorry for me? 

If Nagato's apartment doesn't forbid keeping cats as pets, maybe I should just give Shamisen to 
her. But if I really did that, I'm afraid I'd have to console my sister for a very long time. Plus, 
even I seem to have taken a liking to Shamisen. Oh just forget it. You live as long as Puss in 
Boots for me, you hear, Shamisen? 

Seeing Sakanaka-san liven up once again, I think that even Shamisen wanted to open his mouth 
and say something. 


As we left Sakanaka-san's house, Rousseau and Michael had already recovered with 
unbelievable speed, and were now as healthy as ever. Needless to say, Haruhi and Asahina-san 
cheered up too, as they took turns hugging the two little puppies, with big smiles on their faces of 
course. 


Sakanaka-san's mother had prepared several gifts and treats for us to take home, Nagato's goody 
bag being the biggest of us all. But that's to be expected. After all, she did help out the most. As 



we were chatting earlier, we found out that Higuchi-san was a university student after all. She 
had also planned to give us something in return, but Haruhi politely refused. 


"You don't have to, honestly. This was something Sakanaka-san asked us to help her out with 
after all. I'm already satisfied with hugging Michael. Furthermore, the SOS Brigade isn't some 
organization where we absolutely need money in order to survive. I think that seeing the both of 
you happy over JJ and Michael's recovery is already the best reward. Isn't that so, Yuki?" 

Nagato didn't say anything but merely nodded. 

Koizumi was still as composed as ever, as he said to Sakanaka-san: 

"If any other dogs are infected with the same disease as Rousseau, please do let us know. Even 
though the possibility of that happening is low, it's still better to be safe than sorry." 

"Alright, I'll ask around the next time I take Rousseau out for a walk," 

Sakanaka-san said, nodding earnestly. 

"So, see you in school then!" Haruhi said as she waved to our classmate happily. As I followed 
her from behind, I suddenly thought: 

If Haruhi and Sakanaka-san could be classmates again next year, that would be a good thing too. 


Haruhi seems to have already forgotten all about the 'spirits' incident, as she chats merrily away 
with Asahina-san about dogs while we walk towards the station. That's a good thing for me. At 
least I don't have to think up an excuse for the whole incident. 

When we reached the station, we decided to call it a day. Haruhi, Nagato and Asahina-san 
decided to get off the train one stop earlier, since it would be closer to their houses that way. 
Even though it was already noon, perhaps it was due to having consumed so many treats already, 
I didn't want to enter a restaurant. Either that or I didn't want to bring Shamisen into one. So with 
that, today's SOS Brigade activities came to a close. 

Koizumi and I passed through the automated gates, and exited the station. 

Since the normally noisy girls of the SOS Brigade had already left, things seemed unusually 
quiet as the esper and I walked on the streets. 

"What a day." 

Even though Koizumi said so while facing me, I had a feeling that he was actually saying it to 
himself. 



"Since this was a pretty difficult problem to handle, we had no choice but to ask for Shamisen's 
cooperation. Nagato-san is really something, eh? Come to think of it, something like this 
happened last year too, when Kimidori-san came to us for help. It was thanks to Nagato-san that 
we were able to rescue the Computer Society President from those data lifeforms... It seems that 
Nagato is connected to each of our clients, don't you agree? 

"What are you trying to say?" 

"That Nagato-san has truly become an irreplaceable member of the SOS Brigade. However, this 
is merely my opinion. Compared to this, I think you're the one with something to say, am I 
right?" 

Unfortunately, I'm not someone who loves to talk as much as you. The only thing I wanted to 
know was why kamadoumas and cosmic viruses alike were so attracted to our planet, as if it 
were a magnet or something. Maybe Nagato knows the answer for this. But nah, Nagato only 
came to Earth a few years ago to observe Haruhi— 

I suddenly froze on the spot. 

Haruhi. 

That couldn't possibly be the answer, could it? Because of a massive 'data flare', the Integrated 
Data Sentient Entity sent Nagato here. So does this mean that the kamadouma in the Computer 
Society president's case, as well as the cosmic viruses this time, were actually attracted to 
Haruhi? But that can't be so, can it? After all, Nagato said that the former had already come to 
Earth millions of years ago. 

Now if Haruhi's powers could unconsciously break the boundaries of time, then that would be 
too extreme, wouldn't it? However, Asahina-san is a time traveler... Someone from the future 
who had crossed the boundaries of time and arrived in our time plane... 

I began thinking seriously, like the time when the concept of time was messing around seriously 
in my head. 

"Do you think it's all a coincidence?" 

Be quiet, won't you? Koizumi resembled a waiter that was reciting his customer's order again 
and again. I had a feeling that I knew what he was going to say. 

"Stop beating around the bush. I've got no time to be playing mind games here with you." 

"Those cosmic life forms happened to land on this street near our houses, and even attached 
themselves onto a North High Student's dog. The said student then consulted the SOS Brigade, 
and had us take action... The truth was finally uncovered by Nagato, who in turn cleaned up the 
entire mess. For everything to happen so smoothly as I outlined to be a coincidence, the only 
time it'll ever happen is when it's the plot of a fiction novel." 



Even though he had a point, this was one time where I couldn't just let laziness get the better of 
me and not make a retort. This doesn't mean that I'm on Haruhi's side, though. 

"To hell with fiction probabilities. We do have two different cosmic entities appearing before us 
at the same time. What's the probability of that happening? If you're not going to label it 
coincidence, what else are you going to call it? Just like how you came up with your own 
detective script last winter, why can't you let Nagato come up with her own script once in a 
while?" 

"That should be impossible. I think the one that's truly scripting everything is probably the 
Information Data Sentient Entity, or some other cosmic entity we haven't met till now. And I can 
guarantee this is not something Suzumiya-san wishes for." 

What are you trying to say actually? Why are you still overworking your mind thinking about 
these pointless probabilities when it's almost spring break now? Plus, everything's over for the 
moment. Just let it rest. 

"I've said it before, haven't I? Suzumiya-san's mind is gradually stabilizing. As happy as I am 
about it, there are also others who are undoubtedly disappointed with the current state of affairs. 
This is where the problem lies." 

I remained quiet, signaling for Koizumi to go on. Koizumi placed a finger on his lips, and said: 

"There may even be some who think that things would be meaningless if Suzumiya-san 
continues to stabilize. Be it a data flare, a time quake, or a dimensional disruption, I think that 
there are people who are secretly manipulating things in the shadows, trying to evoke Suzumiya- 
san's unbelievable powers. 

I suddenly noticed that Koizumi's smile had begun to look very odd, eerily resembling the one 
Asakura Ryouko had on her face the day she tried to kill me. 

"That's why, what I'm saying is, this incident may only be the prologue to something even more 
sinister." 

What are you talking about? If everything could be predicted, as you seem to suggest, someone 
would undoubtedly run a predicting service, and become the next Nostradamus. 

Koizumi's smile suddenly turned bitter. 

"These cosmic entities suddenly landing on Earth, and right before our eyes too - 1 don't think 
it's something you can dismiss with a mere 'coincidence'. You should know the truth better than 
anyone. These 'aliens' could actually be hidden right before us. There might be other cosmic 
intelligent lifeforms here on Earth aside from human interfaces." 


Hmph. 



I didn't want to mask my words any longer. You know Koizumi, it's hard for me to accept what 
you're saying after you've occasionally revealed to me that deceptive side of yours. If you want 
to call Nagato a human interface, then do so right to her face. I don't really mind, seeing that it's 
the truth anyway, but: 

"What I do mind are these 'other aliens' you just mentioned." 

"There have been reports from within the 'Organization', that is why I know a little more than 
you do. Even though I don't know everything about them yet, I think it's sufficient to say that I 
know them quite well." 

Koizumi's smile finally returned to normal. 

"Let's just leave the other aliens to Nagato. I've decided that my priorities are to help the 
'Organization' in combating its rivals. Similarly, if there are any rival time travelers, then I leave 
it to Asahina-san. I have a feeling that something is about to happen." 

From Koizumi's expression, I could tell that he was serious, because his thoughts were exactly 
the same as mine. The only thing I disagreed with him was to leave the fighting to Asahina-san. 
That should be left to the other Asahina-san in the far future. I didn't worry about Nagato at all, 
since I was sure there was nothing that had greater willpower than she did. Oh and Koizumi, I 
hope you haven't forgotten the promise you made during the snow mountain incident. 

"Of course I haven't. It's always been in my mind. But even if I do forget, I'm sure you'll be there 
to remind me, no?" 

Koizumi laughed as he waved goodbye. 

"Then, we'll save the chatting for another day." 


"Ah, you're back Kyon-kun!" 

When I reached home, I found my sister sprawled on my bed, happily reading my manga. 
"Where did you take Shamy to?" 

I didn't say anything, as I lifted Shamisen out of the box. Upon being released, the tri-colored cat 
immediately leapt onto my sister's back, and began walking up and down her spine, as if giving 
her a massage. My sister laughed as she waved her legs in midair. 


Kyon-kun, get Shamy off me, I can't stand it! 



I gently picked Shamisen off my sister's back, and placed him by her side. The fifth-and-soon-to- 
be sixth grader put down the manga in her hands, and proceeded to stroke Shamisen's back, 
while playfully tickling his nose. 

"I smell something yummy — What is it?" 

I gave my sister the bag of treats Sakanaka-san's mother had prepared, before going to pick up a 
thick, hardcover book on my desk. 

About a week ago, after the end of the end of term exams, I had borrowed this book from 
Nagato. "Are there any interesting books here? Books that suit my current feelings?" I asked her. 
Nagato stood before the bookshelf for approximately 5 minutes before slowly picking the book 
that now lay before me. After reading about half of the book, I found out that it was a simple 
high school love story between a boy and girl. There were no traces of science fiction, nor were 
there any annoying deductions - just a normal story set in a normal world. However, because of 
various unexplainable reasons, I found this novel to be extremely suitable for me. That's why I 
don't think Nagato should become an astronomer or a vet. She should become a librarian instead. 

I lay down on my bed, and started to pick up where I had previously left off. My sister had 
already brought the treats downstairs, and was probably busy finding something to drink. 

I had no idea how much time had passed when — 

I suddenly noticed Shamisen scratching at the room door. He was probably signaling for me to 
open it up and let him out of the room. I usually left my room door half open for his 
convenience, but I suppose that my sister had accidentally closed it tight when she left my room 
earlier. 

I inserted a bookmark into the novel I was reading, then got up to open the door for Shamisen. 
Shamisen immediately darted out of my room, and all of a sudden turned back and meowed at 
me. Is this his method of saying 'thank you'? 

However, when Shamisen began looking over my shoulder, I felt uncomfortable and too turned 
around. 

All I saw was a corner of the ceiling. There was nothing else. 

Shamisen's round eyes were locked on the ceiling, before they slowly moved, finally landing on 
the wall outside my room. His eyes seemed to trace a path in the air, as if trying to tell me that 
something I couldn't see had traveled from the ceiling to the outer wall. 

"Hey." 

Even though I called out to Shamisen, he remained in that pose for a couple of seconds, before 
waving his tail in midair and strolling off. He was most probably headed to the kitchen to find 
something to eat. I left my door half closed, just wide enough for a cat to squeeze in, before 



giving Shamisen's actions more thought. Animals would usually pay attention to things that 
humans would mostly ignore. Even small noises outside would sometimes distract them. 

But what if Shamisen had seen something I couldn't just a moment ago? What if something 
invisible had attached itself to my ceiling, before slowly floating past my wall and out of my 
room? 


— A spirit? 


— I think it's better not to think about it. 

What if some data lifeforms had arrived on Earth billions and billions of years ago, and chose 
humans as hosts instead of dogs? What if humans had a totally different reaction to them? Is this 
how the early humans gained their huge intelligence leaps? 

If that were the case, then all Nagato's bosses needed to do to overcome their evolutionary dead 
end would to be to attach some of these lifeforms onto themselves. Of course, this would mean 
that they hadn't achieved evolution on their own, but rather through the help of some other 
worldly beings. 

I wonder if the Information Data Sentient Entity had actually considered that possibility before. 
Even though it would be against the way of nature, maybe some cosmic entities had actually 
infected primates billions of years ago, which in turn caused them to develop their superior 
intelligence and evolve to the modern human now. If that was the case, then all queries regarding 
evolution would have been solved. 

"What am I saying?" 

I was already mumbling to myself. How could something as preposterous as that possibly 
happen? We should not think about things that exceed our brain capacity. I should just leave all 
these difficult scientific questions to Koizumi, just like how he wanted to leave aliens to Nagato. 
When the day that I finally understand what his sentences mean comes, I'll be sure to prepare a 
suitable counterattack. 

Even if Koizumi was really occupied with his 'Organization', to the point that he couldn't spare 
me some time, I would still have others to turn to. The first person I would ask help from would 
be Tsuruya-san. If I manage to sway that cheery senpai to our side, I'm sure even the higher ups 
in the 'Organization' would be in a fix. 

What should I do if such a situation ever arose, or what new situations would be brought into 
play, these I had never thought of before. You know what they say. 'We'll cross that bridge when 
we come to it'. 

"... Ah forget it. Thinking's not my specialty, after all." 


All I needed to do was to focus on being good old me. I was I, no more, no less. 



Actually, if the time ever comes, I guess I'll contribute a little to thinking. But that's in the future. 
If you tell me to think any more before that happens, then I might just as well ignore you. 

Just as I was in the middle of these random thoughts, my cell phone on the desk began to vibrate. 
Would it be from some unknown entity from an unknown time? As I picked my cell phone up, I 
saw it display the caller as 'Haruhi'. 

"What is it?" 

"I forgot something important, Kyon!" 

Cutting straight to the chase without bothering to even say 'Hello', that was exactly what Haruhi 
would do, all right. 

"Even though I'm happy that JJ and Michael are all right, don't you think the illness is kind of 
strange? I believe that they were scared stiff after seeing a spirit ! " 

Now do you understand why I'm so frustrated when it comes to thinking, Koizumi? Haruhi is 
one very annoying girl who likes to think about pointless stuff, and to top it off, share those 
thoughts with me. 

"I think it's due to that path that we took a week ago. According to my deductions, they may still 
be lurking there, floating around like wandering shadows." 

"Even though I'm not sure what kind of spirits they are, we should exorcise them as soon as 
possible!" 

"So all members are to gather in front of the station again tomorrow! I'm going to take a photo of 
the spirits this time for sure!" 

"How in the world are you planning to take pictures of spirits?" 

"Since it's impossible to take them in the morning, we'll just have to take them at night! We'll 
sniff out those spirit-infested areas, and take a couple of photos of them! If we're lucky we may 
even manage to net 2 or 3 photos ! " 

Haruhi then proceeded to tell me the time and venue we were supposed to meet, and promptly 
hung up. It was as if she had never once considered whether I had any plans for Sunday. I 
assumed that a few seconds later, some other brigade member got the exact same call from her. I 
had a feeling that the next day's 'city-wide search for mysterious events' would turn out to be a 
'close-encounter with midnight spirits' event. 

I put down my phone, glanced at one corner of the room, and was soon lost in thought. 


Sakanaka-san's 'spirits' case had finally been solved thanks to Nagato. I believe that spirits don't 
exist in this world, and I'm sure Koizumi is of a similar opinion. The problem was that Haruhi 



did believe in them, and indeed hoped that they would come to pay her a visit every few hours. It 
seems that our brigade commander's wishes have escalated from aliens, time travelers and espers 
to spirits now. 

The task of mapping out 'spirit hotspots' I leave to Koizumi. Oh and if we do snap any pictures of 
spirits, Koizumi, do me a favor and whip up some scientific excuse on the spot. What was I 
going to be in charge of, you ask? That's simple. I'll be the one in charge of hugging Asahina-san 
if she ever screams out in the dark. 

Walking about in the dark while mysteriously snapping photos, that seems mighty suspicious all 
right. I'm sure it would seem weird if we were to tell some bystander that we were trying to take 
a picture of a spirit that we didn't even know what it might look like. And if we did really run 
into an emergency, all we needed to do was have Asahina-san put on a miko costume and start 
chanting out some Buddhist Scriptures. Maybe that will satisfy Haruhi's 'exorcising mission'. 

But even if spirits really do exist in this world, I'm sure that we won't bump into them simply by 
taking a walk in the dark. Plus, I don't think Haruhi really wants to run into any spirits either. 

After being with her for almost an entire year now, I'm sure that everyone understands, right? 
What that girl wishes for is not spirits, but rather the process of trying to find them together with 
everyone. 

Then, what do I think about it, you ask? 

"Oh well, let's just treat it as a night outing." 

I looked at the ceiling Shamisen was looking at not long ago while talking to myself. After that, I 
continued reading my book, which was set in a world that was much more normal than the one I 
was currently living in now. Even so, I didn't envy that normal world one bit, or at least that's 
what the current me thinks now. 


Author's Notes 

Author's Notes 


About books. 

A few days ago, for no particular reason, I raided the cardboard box that holds those sorted 
junks. Inside of them are the books that I have read in the past. 


By the way, I don't have the habit of disposing items easily. That said, I don't have a lot of boxes 
filed away since I tend to think about what I want before I buy. Although these books have been 
around for close to a decade, looking at them feels like looking at myself of the past, and it gives 
me a feeling of saying that "ahh, it's alright". 

Looking at these books, I can't help but to think of how my thought pattern is shaped by having 
read all of them. Of course I would be unable to recall the fine details in the volumes but the bits 
and pieces of memory of that reading process are deeply engrained in my head are still setting 
right now. 

Time is of foremost importance. While you read you would be moved and impacted in ways hard 
to express. However, if I am to read the books again, the impacts and emotions would definitely 
be different from those days. 

It can be said that the books I have read are the predecessors to everything that I have written. I 
can't help to conclude that should I lack one of those books this epilogue might not exist. 

With my thoughts trailing to this point, I closed the cardboard boxes once more being utterly 
touched as I make up my mind to find some time and give those books another read and put the 
boxes away. Additionally I hope that perhaps I can reap more from the books that I read 
henceforth. 


Cats 

I am afraid of the cold. I have to have a winter jacket on for most of the year. Due to this I have 
been the butt of great many jokes. However, I would answer with: "I might have been a cat in my 
past lives". Let's not discuss if reincarnation is real or not for now. I just think from time to time 
that if my previous incarnation was a cat, would cat not have previous incarnation? If a cat was 
once a polar bear, then would the cat be afraid of the heat or of the cold? If the cat becomes a 
penguin next what then? Is reincarnation specific to human? Doesn't seem to be that way, give 
that there used to be a television show called Astrologer of Pet's Previous Lives which did pretty 
well. But I would think that I could do the same as well! 

I spent my days thinking of such trivial things. 


Editor in Chief □ Straight Ahead! 


1000 What would happen if SOS Brigade does an activity around the Literary club? I thought 
about that since the beginning. As such, I have written some Nagato one-shot and a piece called 



‘’Digest • Literary Club Activity”. Although I remember having written such things, I have 
forgotten where on the hard drive they have gone, so it took awhile to hunt them down. 

The earliest drafts also include such things as Student Union Finally on the Move , Discuss • 
Computing Club • Despondence, Haruhi’s Disappearance, Sporting Match, which I kind of miss. 
Although I have pen several other works, but since I find them either reveal too much story 
ahead or lacking meaning, I had them set aside. They now sit at a corner in my hard drive. From 
day to day I have been clicking about with my mouse, weeding through all the files trying to see 
if I can make a new discovery. If you’re willing feel free to help. 


Wandering Shadow 

It has always been worrisome whenever I have to come up with a title for the book or even just 
the subtitles. When I just can’t stand it anymore I simply jot down some Katakana and call it at 
that. Originally this title was temporary called Drifting Shadow (originally □ U □ □) which I 
translated into English, nothing special with this. 

Come to think of it, as with the case of Melancholy of Suzumiya Haruhi, I didn’t bother to give it 
a second thought and just took ten seconds to makeup the title. Subsequently the names are by no 
means eloquent. I tend to start writing without thinking about the topic only to go back when I 
am done. I know thought that I lack talent in that department so I would simply give the piece 
just anything I can think of. Who is willing to do the work for me next time? 


The combination of a series of headings forms this absent-minded work, and it already is at its 
eighth volume. That of course is due to the massive efforts of those involved with the production 
and circulation and most importantly, the continuous support from the broad reader base. With 
my thanks to all that that have been helping and supporting me of the releases of media other 
than novels, see you again. 


Tanigawa Nagaru 



volume 09 




AUtHOP: 

Tcmigawa Naganu 

Artist: 

NOIZI ItO 














Prologue 

There are many different methods by which 
people feel the change in the seasons, but for 
me in this past half year the tendencies of my 
calico cat, Shamisen, provide the best clues. 

Shamisen no longer crawls into my bedding in 
the middle of the night, telling me that spring, 
my favorite of the four seasons, has come. I 
admire the ability of the cat to sense and adapt 
to the environment, and the more accurate 
ability of plants to do the same thing. It's 
amazing, the way the cherry blossoms bloom as 
if they've discussed how they're going to paint 
the blue April sky with floating petals. Even the 
sun seems as if it's preparing for summer. But, 
even though the sun is scorching, the winds that 
blow down from the mountains are still chilly, 
which reminds me of the altitude of this city I 
inhabit. 

I raised my head and looked up towards the 
bright sky. The reason I would utter meaningless statements such as the one below can be 
attributed to my boredom. There are no other explanations for it. 

"It's spring already, huh..." 

That is why I did not expect a reply from anyone. But the person who occupied the spot beside 
me, despite sensing the boredom in me for making such a statement, still felt compelled to reply. 

"Undoubtedly, it is spring right now. To the students, it is also a new beginning. It is spring from 
both the calendarial and yearly perspective. My heart feels the same way as well." 

His tone can probably be described as being a cross between spring and autumn. If it is summer, 
all that could be felt is the boredom. As for winter... the only person I wish that would speak to 
me in such proximity would be Asahina-san (big), and her alone. 

I am not too sure if he realized that my heart was no longer set on the conversation, and all that 
was left there was my physical body, but he would continue his speech regardless of any 
inteiTuptions. 

"This is my second time welcoming spring since I stepped into high school. I do not know 
whether 'spring has finally arrived' or 'it is spring yet again' would more accurately describe the 
point I am trying to make here." 



I wonder what there is to be so confused about. If this was in English, he could always use 'yet' 
to connect the phrases together. I have already forgotten most of what happened so far. Trying to 
recall them now, I feel that many of those past events went past as fast as a whiff of smoke. 
Events that will happen from now onwards are nearly impossible to predict as well, so the speed 
at which they happen doesn't matter much to me. 

As for now, I just have to use my level of happiness during the event to judge how slow or fast 
things happened. Why not take a look at the incident from the viewpoint of clocks; don't they 
rely on counting seconds to measure the flow of time, while producing ticking sounds to remind 
people of this fact? Although occasionally one doesn't remember actually turning the alarm clock 
off, sometimes it just ends up not ringing, angering me to the extent of throwing the alarm clock 
at the wall. Such incidents happen most often on Monday mornings. 

"As you have said, the hands of a clock are one of those few things that can objectively remind 
us of events. But to humans, it may not be just a hand on the clock. What is most important is 
what we have used the time for." 

"Uh huh." 

I stopped inspecting the changing shapes of the clouds and turned to face the person beside me. 

Presented in front of my eyes is a handsome face with an unfading smile, reminding us of the 
presence of its owner - Koizumi Itsuki. The smile can be described to be scenery as normal as 
the contrail of a plane that just flew across the sky: not too glaring or damaging to the eye to 
prevent you from looking at it. Realizing that staring at his face any more would not have much 
purpose anyway, I turned my head back to face the front. 

It is just that I have something to say... 

"I shall add a personal comment here..." 

Views of the courtyard reflected into my retina. I noticed Koizumi's intent stare focused on me, 
waiting for me to continue. 

"I still think 'spring has finally arrived' would be more appropriate." 

My eyes followed the first-year students who had amassed in small groups on the courtyard and 
the North High uniforms they wore. My mind replayed the memorable scenes from last year, 
making me wonder if second-year students one year ago looked at first- years with the same 
intent as I do now. I suppose this is true. 


Due to the school district assignments I ended up in North High and met Suzumiya Haruhi, the 
walking enigma. Before even getting acquainted with the situation, I was put through her crazy 
self-introduction. While I was still wondering "What is wrong with this person?", I was dragged 



into her world and forced to join a mysterious organization known as the SOS Brigade. Thanks 
to this, I met real-life aliens, espers, and time travelers, who aren't even supposed to exist. It 
would be fine if it had stopped at that, but I was dragged into paranormal events one after 
another, and had to go on crazy sprees with Haruhi as well. My, my. My life experiences must 
have increased exponentially just in the past year. In fact, I think I would have no problems 
defeating those bosses in games with all this experience (EXP). 

"Habit is indeed very powerful." 

The slope that I had to conquer daily on my quest to school had become such a habit that 
nowadays, I find myself in bodily contact with my bed until the last possible moment. However, 

I am not the only one to have changed tremendously; Haruhi has also undergone this process, 
like a carp would from just jumping over the hoop to becoming a dragon. 

I really wanted to use a camera to capture the Haruhi of this moment, and then take it back for 
the Haruhi of one year ago to have a look at, while at the same time making up a story filled with 
the kinds of descriptions found in proverbial stories, telling her that this would be the her of a 
year onward. 

But even if this were possible, I am afraid I would not do so. 

"I agree with this too." 

Koizumi squinted his eyes and raised his lips slightly upward, arms crossed in front of his chest, 
legs resting on the table. 

"I am talking about habits. From the humans living everywhere across the globe, we see that 
humans can adapt to their environments easily. Basically, one only needs some time to get used 
to new surroundings. But recently I'm starting to wonder if this could be a bad thing? Once one 
gets used to an environment, the ability to adapt to sudden changes would decrease as well." 

What exactly are you talking about? If you are referring to Haruhi, I believe that the number of 
unexpected occurrences far exceeds those that are otherwise. 

"Hmm, you are right..." 

Koizumi revealed a seldom-seen expression that could not be described in words. This guy often 
rambles on and on even if the other party did not ask him to. If I asked him anything I would 
probably have to sit through another load of jargon yet again. 


I shook my head without talking, as if trying to divert Koizumi's attention away, before looking 
in another direction. 



On the topic of remaining silent, the back of a petite person as quiet as a statue of Buddha in a 
monastery enters my field of vision, wearing the female North High sailor uniform, her short hair 
wavering ever so slightly along with the wind. 

Needless to say, this is Nagato Yuki, the secret weapon of the SOS Brigade - but perhaps the 
President of the Literature Club would be more befitting for her. Like Koizumi and myself, 
Nagato had brought her table and chair out onto the courtyard a distance away from us, silently 
reading her book. The title seems to be something like "Philosophers, Artists, Musicians, and 
their Interrelationship", and is probably as thick as a brick. 

I turned and looked at the clubroom block of the school. Asahina-san, after being dragged out of 
the clubroom by Haruhi traveling at the speed of light, still hasn't returned. Actually, I don't 
really mind, since it might turn out to be a blessing in disguise. 

"If this is the case..." 

I haven't introduced the current situation yet, so let's have a quick recap. The new school term 
had been in progress for a few days, and curriculum time has ended. Today, we brought our 
tables and chairs out into a corner of the courtyard. Most, though not all, second and third- year 
students have gathered at the school field as well. 

I could barely make out the backs of the members of the Computer Research Society. A few 
computers rested on the long tables in front of them, the screens showing either the contents of 
some CD-ROM or CG graphic. Unlike "The Day of Sagittarius III", what is on the screen has a 
particular olden feel to it, resembling some fortune-telling tarot cards, making you wonder if the 
president of the Computer Research Society burned his brain. I spotted the newly promoted 
third- year president in the mix, though I wonder if he is still holding his current position. 
Although these things do not really concern me, I guess I'm just feeling curious. I think I'll check 
this with Nagato later on. 

Directing my vision elsewhere, I saw a few unknown clubs gathering in another corner. I'd never 
even heard the names of some of them before. Seeing all these, I gradually realized that what I 
am doing now is incredibly pointless. I just don't understand why we have to participate in such 
activities. 

Even if I am forced to give a reason for this, I guess it concerns Nagato as well. 

I took yet another look at the bookworm of a girl. 

At a distance not too far away from where Nagato is silently sitting, the words "Literature Club" 
are printed on a piece of paper stuck onto a table with scotch tape. That piece of paper moved 
gently along with the spring wind which blew Nagato's short hair, unblessed by any salon. Her 
intense gaze never once left the book, as if trying to disconnect herself from the outside world. 


I guess everyone should understand by now. 



There is a time for culture-related clubs, especially the smaller ones, to have a chance to recruit 
new members, as well as to showcase their works. This is exactly what is happening in the 
courtyard now. Sports-related clubs are holding similar events at the sports hall or the school 
field. People would approach the band automatically, even if there was no recruitment exercise. 
As for arts clubs and the like, they have set up their booths in their respective clubrooms, much 
like fishermen setting up nets and waiting for the fish to get themselves caught. This leaves only 
the clubs that would probably not even be known without some form of advertising, such as the 
various societies, in the courtyard. 

I expected most of the readers to understand this without any explanation, so I did not really 
mention it until now. Naturally, members of the SOS Brigade have been promoted as well. 
Haruhi, Nagato, Koizumi, and I will be entering our second year, and Asahina-san her third. 

Now that I must bid farewell to the memory- filled classroom of 1-5, 1 cannot say that I would not 
miss the class, but even as I step into my second year, I doubt much will change. Oh, I might as 
well mention that Haruhi and I have once again been sorted into the same class. When I stepped 
into the second- year classroom after the opening ceremony this year, the person sitting behind 
me was, as expected, Haruhi. That arrogant face, filled with mixed emotions and grins which 
always seems to be hiding some evil ploy, remained unchanged as well. 

"What's this?" 

Haruhi looked on with her usual look of unconcern. 

"It’s as if there’s no change from the first year! I expected some earth-shattering change to 
happen!" 

Although I wanted to ask her whether this sentence meant she was happy or unhappy about the 
outcome, at this moment I have the same sentiments as well. In 2-5, other than Haruhi and me, 
Taniguchi and Kunikida are still around too. Even our homeroom teacher is still Okabe-sensei, 
known for his care towards students. Although there are some classmates whose names I don't 
know despite remembering having seeing them before, the most important thing is that they had 
all came from 1-5. 1 also heard that all the students who decided to study in the science stream 
were just enough for a class, and thus 2-8 had been allocated solely for this purpose. Students 
from 1-8 were then disbanded and split into the other seven classes. Of course there are some 
who are being needlessly shuffled from one class to another. Okabe-sensei's purpose in making 
us introduce ourselves again is probably to accommodate these people who have been forced to 
evacuate and join us. 

Obviously, I doubted the authenticity of this sorting exercise, and approached those who seemed 
suspicious no matter how you look at it, and who had the ability to manipulate such events at 
will. 

"Did you arrange this?" 


Their replies were: 



"No." Nagato replied monotonously. Miraculously, she added, "It is just a coincidence." 

"We did not do anything. I guess it is the decision of the school. The 'Organization' has decided 
not to question this event any further." Koizumi concluded with a bitter smile. 

"I suppose it is coincidental." 

It seems they are serious about it. 

Although in my heart I know of a lady who has the ability to change a coincidence into a 
necessity, I guess I shall not elaborate on that further. 

Does this mean that Asahina-san and Tsuruya-san were sorted into the same class as well? If it is 
indeed this way, there is a possibility that the Tsuruya family could be behind this, but even if 
this is true, I have no idea how I could ask them appropriately. Also, even if there are differences 
in level and classes, everyone would still gather in the same place after school anyway. 

What matters to me now, or rather should matter to me now, are other things. It could likely be 
on the mind of every new student as well. 

I already know aliens, as well as a time-traveling senior. I also cannot deny that the male whom I 
talked to the most often throughout the past year is an esper as well. But... 

On that day, that moment, when Haruhi made that introduction speech that shocked all of 1-5, of 
all the groups she mentioned there is still one that has not appeared. 

Sliders. 

Even though I do not wish for such people to exist, and the only one who would feel that they are 
missing is that girl, now that we have all been successfully promoted, the first-year seat is left 
empty... 

"My, my." 

I shook my head about for a while, trying to relax my shoulders, and began my mission of 
observing the first- years. 

"Once anyone with potential is spotted, his or her name must be recorded immediately!" This is 
the instruction of our beloved leader. But Haruhi failed to mention how potential could be 
defined, and how people with it could be spotted. 

I might as well go off-topic once again to talk about the self-introduction during the first lesson 
in 2-5. Haruhi did not repeat what she said last year but instead used a tone that was 
unenthusiastic yet clear, and proclaimed loudly that: 


I am Suzumiya Haruhi, leader of the SOS Brigade. I have spoken my bit! 



Her smiling face gave the impression of a fearless person. She sat down on her chair again after 
pulling my hair for a bit. 

It seems as if she is trying to say that this is enough. 

But to the entire class, this is indeed enough. For in this entire school, there can't be anyone who 
doesn't know the two terms 'Suzumiya Haruhi' and 'the SOS Brigade' by now. 

Even if... 

I carelessly stared at the legs of the people sporting the uniforms that they would wear from year 
one through year three, wearing the shoes branded with the school logo, walking around the 
courtyard. 

Even if there is, he or she should be one of these newcomers. 


It is the time frame when the cherry blossoms just start showing their leaves. While Koizumi, 
Nagato, and I tried to waste our time away, a figure emerged out of the hordes of students 
moving around. The sight of the students automatically making way for this person reminds me 
of Moses and The Exodus. 

"Long time since we last met." 

The Student Council president stopped in front of our booth, speaking in a cold tone. 

How un-coincidental that I just met you recently. It's not that easy to forget the expression that 
was smeared over your face during the speech you took so long in today's opening ceremony 
making. 

"Cut the crap short. What is it?" 

I watched the president unnecessarily adjust his spectacles much like you would often see in 
television dramas, and then, showing an expression of a leader unhappy with his disciples, he 
continued. 

"Where is the commander? I originally came over to complain about one or two things, and yet 
she is missing." 

"Well, where do you think she went? I am neither the secretary nor the manager of that girl; 
movements of a classmate as busy as her are nearly impossible to track down." 


That cannot be helped then, so I guess asking you is fine. What exactly are you all doing here? 



I had originally expected Koizumi to reply for me if I kept my mouth shut. Who could have 
known that this stereotypical good guy of the SOS Brigade, as if having caught some spring 
syndrome, would remain seated at the back smiling happily to himself. 

"Isn't it obvious after just taking a single glance?" 

I replied without paying much attention. 

His Excellency stared at me with an expression as cold as a metal mask at my lame reply. 

"This is of course obvious by just a glance. As long as one knows where this place is and who 
you people are, the answer will reveal itself rather easily. As to why I asked such a question, it is 
because I am worried you all will pull some stunt that is beyond my imagination. It is indeed 
nothing much. Am I right to guess that you can predict what I will say after this?" 

That is because your actions would never differ from what we have planned. If Haruhi were here 
as well, I'm sure this issue could be settled much quicker. 

Wait. Since Haruhi is not around, why is the president still displaying his airy attitude? Isn't this 
current president purely a puppet controlled by the "Organization"? Or should we say that such 
attitude is maintained only because others were looking? But we are currently in a deserted 
corner of the courtyard, and if others are not deliberately listening out for anything, there should 
not be any worries about us being spied on. Nagato, who is sitting about a few meters away, 
would probably be within earshot, but surely it doesn't matter even if she does hear our 
conversation? The only things that she should not be hearing should come only from the higher 
ranks of the CIA and NORAD I guess. 

I had no original intention of messing about with the student council president, but he continued 
staring at me with his cold eyes, and after twisting his lips about a little, moved his gaze away 
and spoke in a serious and deep tone. 

"We shall ignore the incident here. We are nearly done inspecting all the culture-related clubs by 
now. Kimidori-kun, why don't you move on to the field first? I will join you there later." 

"Sure." 

Only after hearing this short reply did I realize who the one standing beside the president had 
been all along. I nearly let out a scream, but luckily I managed to force it back down into the 
depths of my throat. 

"...Kimidori-senpai?" I asked, suddenly enlightened. 


Yes." She replied politely before bowing. 



Before hearing her voice, I did not realize that she was actually around. This fact deeply 
surprised me. It is as if she had been part of the president's shadow all along, before materializing 
after opening her mouth. In fact, I felt as if she'd appeared out of thin air. 

The first-ever client of the SOS Brigade, as well as the ex-girlfriend of the president of the 
computer research society, now the secretary of the student council, Emiri Kimidori. After she 
gave a refined smile, like those seen in portraits of well brought-up ladies, she gave a bow as a 
sign of greeting. I stood there for a while, stunned, before doing the same. 

My, my, so is this the reason the president is displaying such attitude? Does this mean she had 
hidden her actual character from him? I personally thought this was not too necessary. 

However, the secretary and the president always appeared together as a duo. What exactly is 
happening here? Shouldn't they give the treasurer a chance to appear once in a while as well? 

"It is possible if you wish." The president adjusted his spectacles once again. "Even if our 
treasurer had anything to say, it would be towards the president of your club seated over there." 

Actually both Koizumi and I heard the news as well. Last year, before the spring break, the 
student council had actually organized a meeting regarding the distribution of funds for the 
various clubs, and one of them involved the Literature Club. Although there is only one member, 
it is a legitimate club after all, and the president of the club actually attended the meeting. Of 
course, it is Nagato who attended the meeting as the president and not Haruhi. While Haruhi 
seemed genuinely interested in participating until the very last minute and suggested attending 
together with, or even in place of, Nagato, if she ever attended that meeting, it would surely lead 
to widespread chaos once the news of her illegally occupying the room of another club was made 
known. 

After much begging by Koizumi and me, Haruhi finally agreed and sent Nagato off with an 
expression as if she were sending a hostage to the enemy in a war. 

Nagato returned about an hour later, holding in her hands the funds granted for use for the club. 
This could be considered quite an exception for a nearly-dormant club with only one member. 

According to various sources, nothing was done that would affect the outcome of the funding. 

All Nagato had to do was sit quietly and continue staring intently at the president of the student 
council. Often such meetings would be filled with debates over the amount of funding provided 
to each club, but this year set a new record, for everything went rather smoothly. 

Seemingly pleased with himself, the president said: 

"The meeting is actually just a meeting in name. The funding provided to each club has already 
been predetermined by Kimidori-kun and me. But the Literature Club is the only club excluded 
from this system. Ah, since we have already reached this stage, I shall not comment further. As 
long as you people use the funds assigned on meaningful activities, I will keep quiet. Otherwise 
do not blame me for nagging. After all, everything is already set in stone." 



Kimidori-senpai, who had been observing silently from the side, suddenly chipped in. 

"In that case, I shall make a move first, president." 

"Sorry to trouble you, Kimidori-kun." 

Kimidori-senpai bowed at me once again before departing with a smile of a plant in a nursery, 
leaving a scent of lilies behind. 

During this period of time, there was no visual contact of any kind between Kimidori and 
Nagato. They are indeed similar. In fact, they may have already perfected the art of 
communicating without the need for words. I say this because Nagato never once raised her head 
from her book while Kimidori-senpai was around. 

"In that case, I guess we should be moving onto the actual topic." 

The president took off his spectacles and played with them in his fingers. 

"It is useless talking about this without that girl around. When is she coming back?" 

I guess it should be soon. She's only helping Asahina-san change; it shouldn't take up too much 
time I suppose. 

"I might as well wait for her here then." 

I kept having a feeling that the president that stood in front of me is starting to exude the air of 
someone in power more strongly than a while ago, as if he had been president for three years. 

"I originally thought that the student council work would be very troublesome..." 

The president laughed a bit after saying that, his real side finally showing. 

"But now that I've been at it for a while, it's beginning to get interesting. When facing the various 
teachers and administrative staff as a president..." 

He suddenly reached out his hand and slapped himself on the forehead. 

"I slowly forgot which side is the real me. Actually, changing to become a person of different 
character is not such a bad thing either." 

"I hope that you will not become engulfed by that disguised side." 

Koizumi finally decided to open his golden mouth. 



"Don't ever let the mask you are wearing become the real you. Tomb raiders becoming 
mummified themselves, and people emulating cats becoming real cats, are both common events 
these days." 

"Tomb raiders trapped in a maze will at most become corpses to be displayed to warn others, not 
a mummy themselves. We should also not forget that cats have much shorter lives than humans." 

The president revealed the smile of a predator and returned the spectacles to his face after wiping 
them with the sleeve of his uniform. 

"You don't have to worry about this, Koizumi; I will do a beautiful job. But..." 

After putting his spectacles back on, the president went through a metamorphosis and became 
the perfect student council president everyone had come to expect. No wonder he sometimes 
pondered which one is the real him. 

"Keeping a leash on that psychopathic girl is your job." 

Out of the student council president's sight, the president of our brigade appeared at the exit of 
the clubrooms block. Her face carried a look that is seen in all animals upon the arrival of spring. 
Beside her is a fairy exuding the radiance of the warm spring sun, the maid that is reserved for 
SOS Brigade use only. 

Haruhi carried a cardboard box made of corrugated fiberboard in one hand and held onto 
Asahina-san with the other, smiling as brightly as a Cheshire cat. However, the moment she saw 
the president, her eyebrows rose immediately. 

"Hey you!" 

Haruhi approached the president in large steps, totally ignoring the screams of Asahina-san, who 
she dragged along with her. 

"It's just like I expected! You came over to make trouble for us while I wasn't around, right? 
However, I don't think we committed any crimes that would incur the wrath of the student 
council, did we?" 

Regarding this, I guess everyone has differing views. What exactly are you doing here at the 
courtyard? 

"Ah, President-sempai..." 

Blinking her eyes like a European robin, Asahina-san is in her maid costume. This does not 
really matter, since it’s probably as normal as green bristlegrass growing on grasslands. 


Hey, Haruhi, why are you..." I finally started speaking "...dressed up like that? 



Haruhi proudly puffed her chest up. 


"Do you have a problem with that? Is there anything wrong with wearing a cheongsam?" 

Like she mentioned, Haruhi is wearing a dark red cheongsam, decorated with a finely- stitched 
dragon. The cheongsam's high cut revealed her supple and long legs. What's more, the dress is 
sleeveless. 

Since she had made such a huge din upon entering the courtyard, the attention of everyone 
within it is now focused on her. Asahina-san, surprised by the sudden amount of attention on us, 
was so greatly embarrassed that she fumbled around trying to cover up her assets. If it is 
possible, I would have really hoped that I could have enjoyed such a sight by myself. Whatever 
law that prohibits this does not really matter in this case. 

"If you were at a fancy dress party, of course there would be no problem. But this is the school, 
and here you are, committing such atrocities right in front of many first- years! Can't you just 
think before doing something?" 

Facing opposition from me, Haruhi replied... 

"Aren't I thinking now? That is why I appeared in this costume! I originally intended to wear the 
bunny girl costume, but since I don't want you all to complain, I settled for this instead. I'm 
already changing to fit your demands. You people should be eternally grateful!" 

Haruhi displayed a dirty look on her face. She tried to point a finger at the president, but 
discovering that both her hands were full, quickly let go of Asahina-san and left the cardboard 
box on the table before doing so. 

"You should be feeling eternally grateful!" 

She repeated the sentence. 

Unfortunately, the president is not some saint. 

"What kind of gratitude am I supposed to show here? As the student council president, and 
regulator of the image of the school, I refuse to accept your dress code! I also wanted to ask you 
if you have ever heard of the idiom, 'the pot calling the kettle black' or something similar?" 

"What about it? I have heard of it before." 

"No, I'm just trying not to confuse the students who have come here with confidence in their 
future, especially the pure and innocent males whose fires of passion may be ignited because of 
your dress code. I just can't turn a blind eye when it comes to such situations." 



"What do you mean by igniting the fires of passion? This is so funny. Listen carefully, for those 
dirty-minded people, even the school uniform or the PE attire will ignite their 'fires of passion' 
anyway! Are you going to suggest we might as well come to school naked?" 

Everyone has a limit to how much anger they can tolerate, and it seems the president is finally 
reaching his, prompting him to reply: 

"Talking to you is indeed a waste of my breath." 

"Does it matter? I hope you people can learn to respect the autonomy of the students. Can't we 
even decide what we can wear after school? I'm only going to wear this after school not in class 
or the way home, so does it really matter? Don't you agree with me, Mikuru-chan?" 

"Eh? Ah... I agree not to wear this during commuting at all costs, because this costume is too 
embarrassing..." 

Asahina-san slightly shook her head and then, as if being intimidated by the striking appearance 
of Haruhi's cheongsam, quickly turned her gaze away before letting out a small sigh. Are you 
thinking of wearing the cheongsam too? 

But then again, compared to last year, when Haruhi and Asahina were stationed at the school 
gate in bunny girl costumes giving out fliers, this should be considered a great improvement, 
seeing how much less skin is shown this time round. But, as second and third- year students, 
performing cosplay in front of the first-years is still somewhat out of the line. What's more, it 
does not seem to serve any real purpose, so it should not be encouraged. 

"Who says it doesn't serve any purpose? Of course it does. Look, aren't we attracting a lot of 
attention now?" 

I'm trying to say that you're attracting people's attention for no good reason! 

Haruhi looked at me with a face of displeasure. I suddenly felt as if my emotions resembled 
those of a shrimp sensing the presence of a whale nearby. However Haruhi jumped behind 
Nagato, who is silently reading the book. 

"Kyon, did you forget what we came here for? I will give you two seconds; you better remember 
the answer by then." 

Regarding this issue... 

"Okay, time's up." 

Haruhi only gave me half a second before declaring this to be the case, and shook her finger 
before bringing it to the shoulders of Nagato, who remained completely immobile, as if she'd 
been frozen. 



"We are here to help Yuki, not to recruit people for the SOS Brigade. You'd better understand 
this properly!" 

The last sentence was directed at the president. Nagato, who was dragged into the conversation 
for no reason, did not reply but instead flipped to the next page of her book. 

"Hmph." 

Having no change of expression despite being placed in such situations is a feature of the 
president. He raised his finger and pushed his spectacles back into position and replied. 

"Suzumiya-kun, I thus conclude that despite not being a member of the Literature Club, you are 
helping to fight for its survival?" 

He managed to condense Haruhi's words into ones that others could understand easily. He really 
is a great help. 

"Yup." 

Haruhi raised her chest even higher and said, while pointing towards Koizumi and my table, 

"Look, these two are only sitting here doing nothing, right? There is absolutely no sign that reads 
SOS Brigade. Kyon's face also appears more retarded than normal due to some unknown reason, 
doesn't it?" 

I believe the last line is unnecessary isn't it? 

"Ahh..." 

The president raised his chin, giving a look of being deep in thought. 

"In that case, Suzumiya-kun, what is the signboard-looking thing inside the cardboard box you 
were carrying just now?" 

"A signboard." 

Haruhi fished out the signboard made of wood from the cardboard box without much hesitation. 

The signboard is comprised of a rectangular slab of wood with a thinner, rectangular piece of 
wood running in the perpendicular direction to act as the handle. It has already been painted 
white and the black text on the signboard read "Literature Club". Menial jobs such as the cutting 
and painting of said wood blocks were of course done by me, as you probably expected. 

"Take a look, take a look, isn't 'Literature Club' written on the top? This will be carried by 
Mikuru-chan later on. If we didn't do anything, Yuki wouldn't bother to do anything about it 
anyway." 



That's true. There are times set aside for first-years to be introduced to the various clubs and 
societies within their curriculum time, and I heard that it is already over by now. The reason why 
this remains purely as hearsay is because the SOS Brigade is not even a recognized club in the 
first place, and thus it is impossible for us to participate. The only one among us invited to attend 
this event was the president of the Literature Club, Nagato Yuki. As Nagato stood on stage 
alone, she spoke all the way until the final second with the enthusiasm of a weatherwoman 
reporting the weather of the world's various major cities about a thesis titled "Neurological 
studies on the incomplete transmission of information and feelings through words", which was 
assigned to the Literature Club. The thesis failed to even mention the word 'club', much less 
'Literature Club'. It is also heard that before Nagato was even halfway through the thesis, most 
first-years had already became slaves of the sleeping devil. Combined with Nagato's tone that 
sounded more like she was chanting scriptures than giving a speech, those who were originally 
interested in joining the Literature Club no doubt purged such thoughts from their minds 
immediately. Nagato Yuki can be really scary sometimes. 

However, Nagato did not seem to mind at all. Even if we left her alone today, I'm afraid she 
would only stay cooped in the clubroom reading books. The one who insisted on dragging her 
out here is Haruhi. 

Something as fun as recruiting new members would never be able to escape being detected by 
the antennas installed near the top of Haruhi's head. 

Although it has been mentioned previously that the SOS Brigade is an unrecognized society, it is 
also an illegal society in school that continues operations, similar to an underground group. 
Obviously we are not allowed to recruit members openly. If it were the Haruhi of the past, she 
might have just got on with it without giving much thought, but because starting this year there 
are no corners of the school the shining eyes of the student council president cannot reach, how 
can we still have fun during the day of the event? 

Therefore, the light bulb above Haruhi's head lit up. In the end, we were reorganized as backup 
members of the Literature Club in an emergency exercise, and in this season when every minute 
is worth its weight in gold, forced to spend one day wandering aimlessly in the courtyard of the 
school. Of course, this is how things look from the outside. There is definitely more than meets 
the eye. 

It seems that this problematic student turned student council president realized that as well. 

"Can you flip the signboard over to let me have a look as well?" 

"Sure, why not?" 

Haruhi gave a smile and turned the sign over. Behind the tagline "Literature Club"... is still 
"Literature Club", and absolutely no mention of the SOS Brigade of any kind anywhere. 


"Seems to me you people are well prepared. Okay then, what you just mentioned could not be 
described as unreasonable as well." 



The president pushed his spectacles back up again. 


"Although a compromise is not in my character, I do not wish to cause unnecessary trouble for 
either of us. You all can stay here and continue doing whatever advertising you all want. But do 
not cause trouble for other clubs, do you understand? I am very busy surveying the event. Do not 
forget that forced membership is strictly forbidden." 

You should tell this to the sports clubs. After all, this is only an average high school; every club 
is bound to be anxious due to the lack of talent. 

"You are right. I will go talk to them later. Before I leave, I still have one last question to ask. 
Even if I ignore your recruitment of members for the Literature Club, what do you all plan to do 
after the end of the recruitment exercise? Hand over the room to them?" 

"I believe that is not of your concern." 

The talk about a lack of respect in the tone of high school students is indeed true. The president 
turned his head and looked at Haruhi after hearing this. "Hmph~", though it seems he cannot be 
bothered with that. 

"Oh. This is all I wanted to ask. In that case, see you people next time." 

After completing his sentence, he glared at the costumes of Haruhi and Asahina with a look of 
wanting to capture them on film before going off to chase after Kimidori-senpai. 

What exactly was he here for? Doesn't he realize the more you tell Haruhi not to do something, 
the more she would desire to attempt it? Just look at her now, she is happily laughing over 
nothing in particular. 

"It seems we were quite successful. It's perfect, really perfect." 

Haruhi, upon confirming that the president was finally out of sight, planted the sign into the 
ground and tore off the thin layer of wooden foil with the words 'Literature Club' to reveal 'SOS 
Brigade'. 

I am not too sure which day, but back in May last year, this club named the "Spreading 
Excitement All Over the World with Suzumiya Haruhi's Brigade" was set up. The name hasn't 
been changed since then; it's been largely smooth-sailing. 

There are more than handmade signboards inside the cardboard box Haruhi brought along. 

After forcing the signboard into the hands of Asahina, she continued taking things out of the 
cardboard box while the skirt of the cheongsam flitted along with her movements. 

Lirst an LCD monitor, then a DVD player, various cables and their connectors, as well as the 
newly-bought notebook and stationery. 



We have to get this set up quickly. 


Haruhi turned towards me. 

"Get them installed and play this." 

There are no electrical outlets in the courtyard, but Haruhi had already anticipated that. Refusing 
to obey her instructions now wouldn't do any good, so I dragged the cables towards the direction 
of the computer research society according to her demands. 

"Excuse me, could we borrow your power source for a moment?" 

"Of course." 

The person replying to me is the president of the computer research society. Seems he is still the 
president of the society, according to the official pass hung in front of his chest. 

"My members refuse to let me go." The president seemed pretty proud of that fact. "So I decided 
to stay as the president for the first term. But I have planned for the future as well. In fact, I am 
thinking of nurturing..." 

If what you are going to say is going to be any longer, please keep it for the next time. Your 
members may be motivated by what you said and decide to let you step down early. 

"Ah, actually..." 

The president lowered his voice somewhat, and covered his mouth while saying the following as 
if he was doing a tongue twister. 

"I hope Nagato-san can join our society, and hopefully become the president as well. From all 
the people I have seen, her knowledge of computers seems to be the best, she's definitely a 
genius. No matter what happens, if any bug or system errors occur, the magical touch of Nagato- 
san is able to solve the problem. Although she only drops by once in a while, she never fails to 
surprise us every time. There is a DIY-ed computer for her exclusive use in our club room, and 
she managed to develop a new operating system within moments that managed to shock even the 
best software developers. But no matter how we look at the source, we just can't comprehend it, 
it seems that only she has the ability to do so. All our software and hardware worked perfectly 
with the operating system. It is indeed a gem. As for what exactly the code is based on..." 

No matter how much you tell me, I can only tell you that Nagato indeed has this ability. I guess 
you should approach her yourself for any other matters, for I believe she will teach you. But I 
personally feel that what she would say could probably be incomprehensible to earthlings like 
you and me. 

I swung the connector of the extension cable while thinking about the fact that this third- year 
president actually allowed us to borrow their power source just because of this. 



I swung the end of the extension cable around. Noticing this, the third year president willingly 
handed me the socket of their extension cable. Haruhi's project to assimilate the Computer 
Research Society into the SOS brigade as a branch office has so far been successful and is 
gradually developing. If we don't put a stop to it, the project will grow into the "All Humans are 
Members of the SOS Brigade" project, and she might even complete it before desertification 
spreads throughout the world. I trust Homo Sapiens aren't foolish enough to allow such a plan to 
be carried out. 

It would be better if it is this way, especially for Koizumi, and so I turned my gaze towards him, 
but that esper boy did not seem as happy as I had expected. He revealed a pensive look, crossing 
his fingers together and using that to support his head on the table. What trouble is it this time? 
He squinted as he watched Nagato, increasing my worry. 



The president lowered his voice somewhat, and covered his mouth. 





What is it? It couldn't be that the moods of each of the members of the SOS Brigade take turns to 
become melancholic could it? Stop scaring me. Never mind Nagato and Asahina-san, I originally 
had 100% confidence that there would not be a day where this could happen to you too... 

I do not know if it is because Koizumi saw my shocked face, but he slowly adjusted his gaze 
towards me and flashed me a smile. Although this decreased my worry, I somehow think there is 
something fake about this expression. 

This guy who entered class 2-9, as if conveyed with a gondola, had the entire class of 1-9 enter 
alongside him. This should exclude the possibility of any arch-nemeses entering the same class 
as well, so what exactly is he worrying about? 

The current Haruhi is also in a very good emotional state, so it should not be causing Koizumi 
any headaches either. Or did he catch wind of a pay cut in the "Organization"? If that was the 
case then it would be great, for you would be as free as me. If Koizumi was already confused 
with some love letters in his shoe locker from first grade girls at the very beginning of the new 
semester, my sympathy would become as unnecessary as Shamisen's molts. After all, he has as 
good a face as Haruhi, and if they stood silently, would unconditionally attract attention from 
people of the opposite sex. 

"Kyon, start playing the DVD now!" 

Winner of Miss Universe Haruhi waved the signboard while ordering me around, forcing me to 
get busy again. Koizumi also stood up to help me out. While arranging the various cables for the 
DVD player and the LCD monitor, Koizumi showed his usual smile, but the impression he gives 
me is still very odd. 

Why do you cast me such a subtle glance? Eye contact from Asahina-san or Nagato is perfectly 
acceptable due to the implications behind such actions, but unfortunately the feeling is lost when 
the stare originates from a guy like you. 

After much hard work, I finally got the cables in order. I had a feeling that I had enough and ran 
over to report to Haruhi. Upon hearing that, Haruhi nodded her head happily like a fisherman 
discovering a school of fish. 

"So we shall begin!" 


She took out a DVD from the cardboard box and stuffed it into the unwilling mouth of the DVD 
player before hitting the play button like it was the doorbell of one's own house. 

The monitor showed some blurry footage and some familiar music could be heard leaking out of 
the speakers, floating about in the air. 


Asahina-san shivered. 



Ah~ 


She let out a deep sigh, and turned her face away from the display with a look of helplessness. 
The look on her face ignited the masculinity within me. 

"Haruhi, turn down the volume! If the president of the student council hears this he will come 
running back!" 

"I'm not afraid of him; in fact I don't even give two hoots about him!" 

Would it kill you to give a hoot? 

"I don't even mind having an open debate here." 

Stop doing such stuff! 

"You are noisy, stupid Kyon!" 

Haruhi agilely squeezed her eyes and mouth into the shape of an inverted triangle. 

"You and Koizumi just wait here. I will settle the rest with Mikuru-chan." 

Haruhi stretched her hands out, grabbed Asahina-san's waist, and pulled her towards herself, 
maintaining her bright smiling face. 

"Kyaa~!" 

Asahina-san jumped as Haruhi placed her hand on her waist. 

And so Haruhi and the third-year student in the maid costume stuck their faces close and stared 
at us together as if trying to show off something. 

"Listen carefully. If anybody interesting comes by, remember to record their names and classes 
down and convince them to join us. We are not the movie research society; if anybody runs to us 
and thinks that we are such a club, chase them away. Understand?" 

Haruhi mentioned this before dragging Asahina-san along like a forced parolee around the 
courtyard to advertise. 

"My, my." 

I loosened my shoulders, took out the SOS Brigade sign, hid it behind the chair, and turned to 
look at the images on the monitor with brightness adjusted to the maximum. 

Needless to say, this is the film shot a few months back that, when watched by others, would 
give them the impression of a waste of electricity and equipment. 



The Revenge of Nagato Yuki Episode 00 - Trailer". 


Before the new school term there is a break that is neither too long nor too short. According to 
Suzumiya Haruhi's usual practice, she would obviously not wait for the new school year to come 
obediently. 

I am afraid she has probably been planning for this since the incident with Sakanaka-san's pet 
dog, Rousseau. Spring break, compared to the summer and winter break, has much less 
homework and life could be much more peaceful. But we, as members of the SOS Brigade, are 
being ordered around nearly daily, and then flying around like a torpedo going to Haruhi's 
scheduled destinations. 

Thinking back now, it seems we went to a lot of places. The antique shop, the flea market, 
visiting Sakanaka-san's house to take a look at Rousseau to see if he has become better, as well 
as being invited to Tsuruya-san's house for Hanami, where we sat in her wide garden. My, my, 
the last one was really interesting. At the snap of the fingers or the clap of a hand, the servants 
came out of the house with a banquet that had enough food to feed a middle sized African 
village. This really scared me a little. 

No matter what, as long as Haruhi is invited, she will surely be present. Even if she is uninvited, 
she would not hesitate to join as well. While inhaling the smell of the fresh air of spring in deep 
breaths, she continued ordering us about. It is really strange why she doesn't feel breathless. 

Haruhi was particularly interested in filming the sequel to "The Adventures of Asahina Mikuru 
Episode 00" which we produced for the North High cultural festival last year. Although I am 
shocked that something which will not even become the main concern of the year became one, 
what is more devastating is that Haruhi, who wasn't even officially a second-year student, was 
planning to prepare for the cultural festival of the coming year! 

Haruhi once again picked up the loudspeaker and wore the Ultra Director armband, stuffed the 
video camera which has been hibernating in the corner of the club room somewhere into my 
hands and proceeded to take off Asahina-san's clothes herself, prompting Koizumi and me to 
make a dash for the door. 

Although the title has Nagato's name on it, the protagonist of the story is still Asahina Mikuru. 
(Eh? Isn't the protagonist supposed to be Koizumi Itsuki instead?) Might as well do a mini- 
explanation here. Because Asahina Mikuru's real identity is a battle waitress from the future, 
Asahina-san is forced to wear that revealing costume again. This is the arrangement of the Ultra 
Director Suzumiya Haruhi. Nagato continues to wear her school uniform with a witch's hat, 
black cloak, and a magic wand with a star at one end. Koizumi is still ordered to carry that light 
reflector board. 

What is more convenient is that it is now spring and cherry blossoms are blooming everywhere, 
allowing us to connect to the previous story easily. I can't help but feel sympathy for the trees 
along the coastal area of that river that have already bloomed twice in a year. 



But why is it a "trailer"? Haruhi gathered us at the club room and said: 


"Haven't you guys ever been cheated by a trailer?" 

What do you mean by "cheated"? I asked her. 

"Like movie trailers. Aren't they run in television commercials before the actual movie starts 
screening? After watching that, you will go like 'Wow- very interesting-' right? And then you 
actually go watch the movie with great anticipation only to find that it is perfect rubbish? For 
example..." 

Although I feel there is no need to give examples, Haruhi still mentioned the name of an English 
movie that I have heard before in the past. 

"Back when I was watching its trailer I thought it was a funny and interesting movie. In fact, I 
laughed quite a few times just watching its trailer. The most interesting parts of the movie are 
already made known even before the movie is screened, and these are the only parts that will 
attract others' attention. Don't you all agree?" 

Even if you tell me all this I still have no idea how to reply. For such complaints, I think it is 
better if you made a call to the company that produced the movie instead. There is definitely a 
department that focuses on advertising, and they must surely have very good people there. 

"No matter what form of advertising it is, dishing out all the interesting parts before even 
watching the real thing is really despicable in my opinion. That's why, Kyon!" 

Haruhi looked at me with eyes shining as if all the stars in the Milky Way were stuffed inside. 

"We must produce the trailer first before considering the actual movie! If it is the trailer, there 
are no problems making the entire thing exciting because we don't have to worry about the 
climax at all. We just need to provide more fan-service." 

Because of this, before the film was started, the trailer was already being produced. Haruhi hasn't 
really thought of what to include in the sequel herself. Despite this, she has already planned to 
make it a film that would attract newcomers into the club. But the all-important script is still not 
ready yet. How? Yes, let's make a trailer first! 

Her thought process is always so straightforward. It seems she still has not given up hope on 
burning "The Adventures of Asahina Mikuru Episode 00" onto DVDs and selling them for a 
huge profit. We could have cut part of the original for this purpose, but she was worried that 
people could not get enough of it. Or how about those who wanted to watch more will have to 
join the SOS Brigade? Watching such stuff would only give people a headache, though if this 
was a PV of Asahina it could probably score 120%... 



I glanced at the monitor, which continued playing the video, before returning to my seat. 
However calling it a parody is a nicer way to put it, as it simply entails going back to the same 
places and putting everyone in this time around. 

For example, Nagato telling Koizumi, who happened to be carrying a tube looking suspiciously 
similar to a night light, "I am your mother", or Nagato being a normal human while her 
spectacles are on, but becoming one who can fly like a bird, or stroll in the middle of the 
wilderness dragging a black coffin along once they are removed. Once out of ideas, Haruhi even 
forced Shamisen and Asahina-san's character to interchange, forcing her to meow like a cat while 
she dubbed Shamisen's voice herself, the result of which is obviously unsynchronized lip 
movements, or even parts with Shamisen not opening his mouth at all. All of these are seemingly 
hopeful at first glance, though in actuality they are incapable of being coherently joined, and the 
result is a series of stories which give the impression of having arranged all the camera scenes 
randomly, like dominoes. The constantly changing scene and cast and the poorly linked story are 
all by-products of poor editing. The last straw, however, was the blurry video which seemed as if 
it was deliberately added in, as well as the senselessly-inserted music that had successfully 
become indistinguishable from noise pollution. 

Tsuruya-san, who did not even have to appear in the first place, can be seen in a kimono standing 
in front of a Japanese-styled garden laughing loudly, not to forget my sister and Shamisen 
playing around in the background. In fact, it looks no different from a home-made family video. 
Actually, these scenes were filmed by Haruhi's shaky hands during hanami at Tsuruya-san's 
place. This film is made up of rubbish scenes forming something briefly resembling a video book 
that would never even enter the lousiest movie awards. I doubt it could even make it through the 
first draft, much less be improved in any way. While Asahina-san in waitress costume flying and 
jumping around should be very successful in marketing the alternative Asahina Mikuru, how 
many who watched this would actually have believed it was a movie trailer if not for the "The 
Revenge of Nagato Yuki will open during the cultural festival this fall!" that Haruhi screamed at 
the end? 

Can I add something here? Last time around, didn't Nagato fly into outer space after being shot? 
What method did you use to bring her back to Earth? 

"That will be thought of later. I will consider new villains too!" 

Haruhi the Ultra Director announces. 

That is to say that she did not really think about it before and the announcement is just something 
she thought of impromptu. This is what I call real cheating. If a first-year watched this and was 
interested, I would advise him or her to think again. 

And also those commoners whose eyes lit up upon seeing Haruhi in her cheongsam and Asahina 
in her maid costume should be warned as well. 


In addition, the first-years walking in the courtyard here have graduated from middle school. 
This also means they had completed their mandatory education and have matured in thinking 



somewhat. When they saw Koizumi and me craning our necks while sitting at the booths, they 
decided to maintain a safe distance from us. 

Everyone, your judgement is indeed as ingenious as the rats scrambling to leave a drowning ship. 
The happiness enjoyed by those with a normal and healthy high school life could never be 
understood by these people in front of my eyes. But I personally had a lot of experience with this 
particular point and so am very willing to give advice. At this age, growing a year older is like a 
butterfly moving from the fourth to fifth instar of the larva stage. Even if you wanted to have fun, 
you should never step near bushes after being warned of landmines buried nearby. As a human, it 
is important to be able to differentiate between good and bad isn't it? 

I muted the source of noise pollution as produced by Haruhi and turned my head to the side. 


Nagato appears as if she is trying to conserve energy and is remaining in standby mode. There is 
nobody near her table either. It seems that students interested in literature and writing have not 
debuted yet. I wonder if this will be a headache or joy for Haruhi? 

The only activity conducted by the Literature Club last year was the publishing of the club 
magazine as directed by the puppet student council president under Koizumi. Haruhi, who fell 
for it immediately, forced us into doing so. Due to a blunder back then, all copies have already 
been distributed for free except one, which is left on the Director's table for perusal. Everyone 
who contributed to the magazine, including me, was given a free copy as well as a keepsake. 
However, it seems that people are usually reluctant to share anything that is hard-earned. 
Taniguchi even talked about how much blood he spilled just to produce his article back then. 

So anyone who hasn't read the magazine before and wishes to do so would have to pick up the 
sample on the director's table. 

I attempted to concentrate on the story book in front of me as I tried to stop my curiosity from 
wandering further... 


Nagato slowly raised her head. Her eyes, though lifeless, radiated an unseen glow as she turned 
towards me. As her actions are overly natural, I did not realize that our gazes had actually met 
and it took me a while before I returned to my senses. At that moment: 

"Cat." 

Just the act of noticing that this voice, as loud as the ruffling of the gentle wind, actually 
originated from Nagato's lips took nearly a second. I bore with the intense gaze of hers. 


What happened to the cat? 



What what happened? 


"What do you mean by what what happened?" 

Nagato thought for a while, but her head did not move at all. 

"What happened?" 

Although the query I posted just now remains unanswered, I already knew what she wanted to 
ask. 

"Are you referring to Shamisen?" 

Nagato nodded her head slightly. 

"Yes." 

"He's still very energetic, and he no longer talks now." 

"Really." 

After saying this, Nagato lowered her head to continue reading. 

So she is worrying about my cat at home. Indeed, Shamisen is the host for that... what is it 
called? Anyway, these whatever data lifeform whose name I can't remember unless I'm reminded 
are now inside Shamisen thanks to Nagato. Back to the topic, nothing much actually happened to 
that cat except that his overeating combined with the lack of exercise caused him to become 
fatter. Ever since Haruhi had picked him up and thrown him at me, he was still able to enjoy 
everyday life as a cat without many changes. 

I suddenly remembered this seasonal greeting: "Spring is the season where the skies are clear and 
the cats are fat". Is that really true? I also hoped to be able to laze around like Shamisen during 
spring break; unfortunately I don't think it is possible anymore. 

"It is indeed a busy spring break." 

Koizumi used a more depressed tone as he said that. 

Since his eyes are transfixed on the sky, I thought he was simply talking to himself and so chose 
to ignore him. 

"Don't you think so?" 

Seeing no reply from me, he decided to turn over and ask instead. I don't know if there are any 
problems with my eyes, but I believe I see signs of fatigue in those eyes of his. 



He started playing with the bangs on his forehead. 

"Your eyes are normal, very normal. You are right, the current me is indeed feeling very tired." 
Going crazy with Haruhi all day, normal people are bound to get tired. 

"I am not talking about the normal fatigue that you and I know about. Do you still remember my 
real identity and mission? Do you still remember why I was posted here in the first place?" 

In the beginning it should have been to monitor Haruhi, I guess it's now changed to licking her 
boots? 

"I apologize, but I am sure you remember that I am an esper. Also, where and when can my 
powers be activated, and which person's change in mood will allow me to use my powers. I am 
sure you still remember all these, correct?" 

You have already said this so many times, of course I remember. You declared your actual 
identity to me after Nagato and Asahina-san. In the SOS Brigade, it could be considered the 
latest one. 

"That is good. Then I can get straight to my point." 

Koizumi gave a look of relief, let out a long sigh and lowered his voice. 

"I am not getting enough sleep these few days. I have a tendency to wake up in the middle of the 
night or the early mornings even when I do not want to. The main reason is because my body has 
not been too well lately." 

If you cannot sleep at home at night, then just sleep in class during lessons. It is said that 
sleeping five minutes during lessons is equivalent to sleeping an hour normally. 

"My condition is not exactly insomnia, and the problem does not really lie with me. We already 
know each other so well, even if we want to talk in circles, let's leave it for other, more unique 
topics instead. Although you are less credible than Asahina and Nagato, it is true that we already 
know each other." 

Koizumi's squinting eyes revealed a seldom-seen seriousness. Haven't you always loved talking 
in circles? If you find it inappropriate to use it on yourself now, shouldn't you also be more 
considerate of the people around you, and change this bad habit for the benefit of others? While 
we are considered mature, compared to Nagato and Asahina-san our credibility doesn't seem that 
high. 

"'Closed spaces' and 'Celestials' you mean." 


These should be the areas Koizumi's power will work. 



"Correct answer. Recently, the frequency of their appearance is increasing again. It began just 
after spring break and has continued to today. To be even more precise, it began one day after 
spring break. Because of that, my working hours are no longer bound by night or day and 
without any break. Currently we are on twenty-four hour standby already." 

Koizumi let out a self-ridiculing sigh. 

"I originally thought I had already gotten used to this, after all defeating these Celestials is really 
part of our job, or should I say part of our duty. But such occurrences have decreased 
exponentially in the past year. After Suzumiya-san set up the SOS Brigade, her emotions have 
stabilized a lot. Especially when Suzumiya-san and you returned from that place, the change is 
even more obvious." 

I also seemed to have heard about the decreasing occurrences of such incidents before Christmas 
last year. It is just before Christmas back then, when Taniguchi showed off to me about him 
having a girlfriend. 

But right after that some people did something rather absurd... 

"Hey, wait." 

I found some inconsistencies within this theory. 

"Koizumi, didn't you see how Haruhi was just now? She was literally dancing around jovially. In 
fact, I wondered if she was even standing on the ground in the first place. Who knows, maybe 
she had grown wings or something. And that Closed Space and Celestials, shouldn't it only 
appear when Haruhi was facing great pressure or troubles? She is so busy nowadays that she 
doesn't even have time to think about any problems, so she could not be bored either. This 
completely makes no sense." 

"Indeed, the Haruhi I saw was full of drive. Looks like she would not be feeling bored. But I 
have one request, I hope you can recall the events that happened on the last day of spring break." 

I am thinking back about it all this time. 

"Is there nothing suspicious to you? This shouldn't be so. If it is really so, then there must be 
things you have not thought of yet. And that happens to be the most important thing." 

Koizumi shrugged his shoulders and continued with a tone similar to giving an idiot clues to 
answering a simple question. 

"The last day of spring break. That is the beginning of Suzumiya-san's change in emotional 
stability which she isn't conscious of herself. So, what exactly happened?" 


Change that she isn't conscious of again? Haruhi's lack of consciousness about changes and 
Koizumi's psychiatrist-like analogy of these issues are the roots of most of my headaches. 



"Didn't we go to the flea market that day? Haruhi mentioned that she wanted to participate in the 
flea market next time. In fact, we deliberately took a train and walked miles to that city just to 
take a look at it " 


"I am referring to the incident just before taking the train." 

Can you not be so long-winded!? 

I closed my eyes and slowly drifted along in my ocean of memories 


Haruhi suddenly wanted to go to the flea market, it was the last few days of the spring break. Oh 
yeah, it was the time when we were planning to shoot the trailer for the sequel to our first movie. 

She made Asahina-san wear her waitress costume and Nagato her magician's hat and cloak. 

Then, as if holding a press conference, made both of them stand in a line while she held onto the 
yellow loudhailer. She then said to Koizumi and I, who had just returned after being chased out 
of the clubroom. 

"Don't you all agree we've got too many things in this room? Just now, I was attempting to find 
the Super Director armband but failed. I guess it must be with something else somewhere. 
Perhaps it is time we sort out this mess." 

Wasn't it your idea to bring all these useless things back for collection like a crow? Nagato 
would only have books at the most, Asahina-san her tea leaves and tea set and Koizumi his many 
different board games. Other miscellaneous junk of various sizes occupying space were all 
brought in by Haruhi. 

Haruhi sat on the chair meant for the brigade leader. 

"Normally, I would definitely take one when I see anyone giving out fliers about some event 
coming up. I nearly forgot that I took a particular one recently." 

Saying that, she took out a flier from one of the drawers of the table. 

"This is a notice about a flea market coming up. Although it is a bit far, we can get there in about 
fifteen minutes if we take an express train. If it were possible I really wanted to join, but we're 
currently really busy. Also, for the application to be approved, it will take time as well." 

The reason we are all so busy now is no thanks to you. 

I took the flier Haruhi was using as a fan from her hands and returned to my seat. A flea market 
huh. In this period of time, I guess this means we take out any of our things to be sold or 
something. 



I looked at this flier that gave Haruhi inspiration for yet another target. 


"Tea is coming." 

My personal tea cup suddenly appeared before me. 

Asahina-san is always such a gentle and caring person. Even though she is wearing the waitress 
costume used for filming, she will never forget to pour us tea or stop smiling. Such a gesture 
almost made me tear up. The waitress costume she is wearing now is just so different from the 

previous maid costume, what a refreshing change after all such a job has always been more 

suited for her. Normally, waitresses do not usually hold a showdown against aliens. 

"Hmm, this costume is really cute, as long as she doesn't go out " 

Asahina-san seems very mindful of the length of the skirt and continuously kept her legs closed 
tight, after that, seemingly satisfied, she would happily hug the serving tray and walk back to 
where the teapot is. Gradually, she finished pouring tea for all members. Although the world is 
huge, to be able to see Asahina-san in her waitress costume, an image that would make all her 
supporters salivate, should be for me and the Literature Club clubroom only. And Nagato reading 
books in the magician's costume too. I should really take photos of them to preserve these 
memories. 

I thought about all these while sipping my tea with my head bowed down, moistening my dry 
throat. 

"Hey! Kyon!" 

After finishing her tea in five seconds, Haruhi suddenly screamed at me loudly and slammed her 
teacup on the table. What an impatient person. 

"It's not possible this time around, but we will bring something along to participate next time. 
Quickly sort through the things you have at home and fish out those that will fetch high prices 
when sold! There will definitely be something. For example, collectibles which you know you 
will never use but are unwilling to just throw it away, and thus leaving it to collect dust in one 
corner, presents which you have not even unwrapped after receiving " 

What about those never-before-seen robot models that come with magazines that were bought 
when I was young? Although there are a lot of them, but because piecing them together is just 
too much work, so they have been left there for quite a while. 

"Those will do." 

Haruhi rudely snatched the flier away from my hand before folding it back up to be kept in the 
drawer. 



"Robot models? I have a feeling that the robot model itself thinks that it will be destroyed in your 
hands. You might as well sell it to the people who can appreciate it better." 

Compared to the robot models which only kids will buy, why don't you sell the notebook 
computers you snatched from the Computer Research Society instead? Those will definitely 
fetch a good price. 

"Those are valuable possessions! Speaking of that, I suppose it is time to get them over to 
upgrade the notebooks already." 

Haruhi next turned her attention to Asahina-san, who was busy blowing at her cup of tea. 

"Mikuru-chan should have loads of things as well, right? Like those old clothes and unused 
cutlery, since you buy things so often." 

"Ah...? Th-That..." 

Asahina-san widened her beautiful eyes. 

"Y-You are quite right. If I see anything cute I will buy it. But after putting it on, it doesn't seem 
that suitable, or may feel very weird... W-Wait, how did you know?" 

"Looking at how you are usually is good enough. When walking past departmental stalls with 
you, your eyes will always light up, sending out electric waves as strong as a child wanting to 
buy a toy. The 'I will buy it next time' look is already plastered all over your face. I wonder how 
you still have any pocket money left." 

Asahina-san, after hearing this much, shivered all over for a while. But Haruhi had already 
turned her attention away to the next person by now. 

"Yuki surely has a lot of books. There should be enough to open an 'old books' stall. The shelves 
of the clubroom are already filled to the brim, not to forget the floor as well. Look, the floor 
looks like it's going to fall through soon." 


Nagato slowly turned her head to face Haruhi, then to take a glance at the shelves, finally giving 
me a quick look before continuing to read. 

I think that Nagato will never let go of her books. Also, her house is not only just filled with 
books but rather the house has only books and nothing else. Just when I thought of correcting 
Haruhi... 


"Kyon, in that case, you should go to Yuki's house with a cart to help carry her books. You could 
also help pack them up in a box." 



Nagato turned her head to stare at me again. I suddenly had a strange and familiar feeling, 
reading the message in her eyes. When did I feel this before? ...Oh it was around the same time 
that stupid Nakagawa called me about his ridiculous confession. During the last winter break 
when we were cleaning out the clubroom, Nagato said nothing about her dozens of books on the 
clubroom shelves. After all, she doesn't want to lose any of her books in the clubroom or the 
ones in her home, I think. 

"You are right..." Koizumi said with one hand holding onto his teacup. "Although I brought the 
games here, I could find no opponents at all, so perhaps I should use this chance to reduce the 
range of my collection." 

Can you not face me with that bitter smile of yours? 

Haruhi hastily jumped onto the director's chair and sat on it. 

"So, everybody, remember to free the last day of the spring break on your schedules! We will 
visit the flea market, and if we see anything interesting, use the activity funds to buy it!" 

Regarding the "activity fund" she is talking about, needless to say, it does not belong to the SOS 
Brigade but the Literature Club instead. 

Just like this, the school seems to be saying "you can have some fun for a while" and closed their 
doors on us. But under the leadership of Haruhi, SOS Brigade members are deprived of even 
their right to have a fitful rest till noon, being dragged by the nose to visit various places. Even 
on the last day of the spring break, we are forced to meet at the open space in front of the train 
station 


"You finally recalled to this point. I am still worrying whether this incident had already been 
wiped from your memory." 

Even if I wipe this incident from my memory, I am pretty sure there would be no advantages to it 
anyway. 

"It is difficult to judge whether it will be an advantage or disadvantage. But if possible, I would 
very much like to forget about it." 

Why say such strange stuff in the first place. Koizumi would not understand a technique like 
mind control. Also, even if you have such a power, why not operate on Haruhi's brain first 
instead. 


Just like you said. 



Don't put it so seriously. Using your own valuable time to fret over Haruhi's matters is equal to 
wasting your life away. 


"You can't say that either. Suzumiya-san's problems are my problems too." 
Koizumi explained in a resigned-to-fate manner. And I continued to remember. 


On the day of the visit to the flea market, I obediently woke up after hearing the piercing screams 
of the alarm clock. The feeling of reluctance could be best expressed now. Turning back to take a 
look at the warm bed, only myself waking up seems pretty miserable. Seeing Shamisen happily 
sleeping away, I have a sudden urge to pull him out of bed, but that seems kind of unmerciful. So 
I moved on like a soldier going on a journey of no return and walked down the stairs. 

Taking a peek at the kitchen, I saw my younger sister biting into freshly-toasted bread before 
running towards me. 

"Ah, good morning, Kyon. Where is Shamisen?" 

I opened the fridge and took out the bottle of malt tea and poured a large portion of it into my 
mug. 

"Still sleeping." 

"Do you want me to toast you bread as well? Oh, and the egg with the sunny side up is on that 
plate." 

"Toast one for me then." 

After saying that, I walked towards the wash basin. When I returned, my younger sister had 
already put the bread into the toaster and was putting the plate with the ham into the microwave 
oven. Actually she wasn't really helping me from the bottom of her heart but rather she found 
operating these machines interesting and just wanted to do it once more. 

I might as well add something here. My eleven year old younger sister, who will be attending her 
sixth grade starting tomorrow, plans to go to Miyoko's house to play for the entire day, returning 
only at nighttime. She had already dressed herself up rather cutely and is now waiting for her 
friend, who simply does not look her age, to pick her up. 

When I saw Miyokichi on the road three days ago, I was shocked. It had only been a while since 
I last saw her and yet she looked even more graceful and mature. When my sister and Miyokichi 
walked together in a line, it looked like the difference between five sisters: Miyokichi as the 
eldest and my sister the youngest. What exactly did she eat to make her look so different? 



Seriously speaking, if Miyokichi was my younger sister, she definitely would not enter my room 
without permission, much less take things out without asking. She would also wake me up in a 
more graceful way and would not chase after Shamisen, who already has a phobia of being 
stroked by my younger sister, around the house and crashing into things. The more I think about 
it, the more I want to ask - why was I not born being the brother of Miyokichi 


"You need not show off your girlfriend." 

Koizumi picked up a fallen petal of the cherry blossoms with his hand and said that matter-of- 
factly. 

"The person who has Miyoko as a younger sister would be very lucky, this is a fact that cannot 
be doubted. But if we look at it from a different angle, there should be people who will think that 
your younger sister has a lot of potential as well. But can you mention the incident concerning 
another person in greater detail? Just talk about the time when you left the house and went to the 
meeting place." 

Don't you think you are sounding a little uncaring here? This is because you have never seen 
Miyoko in person before, that is why you are so cold towards this. 

But it is alright, arguing with you over this is useless anyway. 

If you really wanted to know the memoirs of the spring break of my first high school year so 
much, then I will talk about that first. But Koizumi, you were one of those present there too, 
shouldn't you be well aware of what happened as well? 

"I am not interested in my own affairs." 

Koizumi continued playing with the cherry blossom petal with his fingers while continuing. 

"The person I care about is not there. If I must say it, I am a bit mindful of how I am seen 
through your eyes, but that is only a very small matter." 

He flicked that cherry blossom petal away. 

"Please continue." 


I cycled speedily towards the train station as usual. 



One of the rules of the SOS Brigade is that the person who is the last to arrive during outings has 
to pay for lunch. This is effective even till today. Till now, I haven't been treated by anyone else. 
Although, once in a while, I get an urge to cycle faster with the hopes that I might be treated by 
Haruhi for the first time. However, as if going against me, Haruhi always manages to beat me to 
it by a small margin. Is she hidden somewhere, monitoring my every action? 

I thought about this while checking for any available parking spaces at the bicycle park near the 
train station. Suddenly, a voice boomed behind my back. 

"Yo, Kyon!" 

"Wah~~!" 

This is just like a guerilla attack. The voice literally rang just behind my back, so it cannot be 
avoided that my legs, which had been propelling the bicycle forward while maintaining balance 
while I looked around for a parking space, suddenly leapt off the ground. It almost scared the 
daylights out of me. 

I instinctively turned backwards and, after seeing the face of the owner, immediately shouted in 
response. 

"Sasaki! It's you?!" 

"Hey! What is this? Is this how you greet a friend you haven't seen for so long?" 

Sasaki held onto handles of the bicycle while standing beside me, giving a gentle smile that was 
totally irrelevant to the contents of our conversation. 

"Kyon, I was talking on the phone with Sudou yesterday. Seems he wanted to have a gathering 
with our classmates from third-year middle school. Although he didn't mention it, according to 
my gut feelings as well as various reports from multiple sources, he is still unable to forget her. 
And from my observations, the girl that Sudou likes seemed to be Okamoto who got into a girls' 
school. Do you still remember her? The girl with the curly hair, a rather cute appearance and a 
member of the sports society. He asked whether it is okay if we held the gathering this coming 
summer break, and I agreed. Actually anything is okay for me, how about you?" 

If it is held, I would definitely participate. There are a few people with whom I got along with 
quite well in the past, but we have not met since middle school graduation. As for Okamoto, I am 
unable to recall who exactly she is at this moment, so I would gladly leave the seat next to her to 
Sudou. 

Sasaki revealed a unique smile that cannot be described, lips curled slightly upwards. 

"I knew you would say that. But, Kyon, you mentioned those good friends whom you haven't 
met since middle school graduation, I guess that includes me right? In fact, I haven't seen you 



ever since we picked up the middle school graduation certificate together. It must have been a 
year already." 


Sasaki let go of one of the handlebars to the bicycle and ran around it with the free hand, trying 
to show the passage of time. 

"Kyon got into North High right? Has high school life been great so far?" 

I cannot decide if it is great or not, at least I am not unhappy about it at this moment. In fact, it 
may be a bit interesting. If I were to narrate all the amazing events that occurred in this past year, 
it would be longer than a bolt of cloth. "Isn't that good? Unlike me, who can hardly find anything 
to talk about. I can't say it's boring, just that nothing big enough in school happened that would 
upset the natural balance of Earth." 

That is good. If incidents like mine happen in every high school nationwide, it is no longer a 
question of interesting or not. I am afraid the world will sink into chaos. 

I fixed my gaze on the ex-classmate of mine, trying to spot any changes since middle school. 

"You entered that suburban private high school didn't you? I heard that the chances of entering a 
university are high..." 

Sasaki once again changed to another smile. 

"Seems you haven't totally forgotten about me yet, what a relief. Indeed, this is because a day of 
lessons in that school is enough to tire you to death. Look, I even have to study today." 

Sasaki pointed in the direction of the train station. 

"I will be taking the train to cram school later. Sometimes I really feel that I study just for the 
sake of studying. I can't even feel the spring break. And starting tomorrow, I still have to take the 
train to an even further place to study. There isn't anything else that turns anyone off more than 
adapting to a crowded morning train." 

This can be compared to that miserable slope I have to climb up to reach North High daily. 

"Isn't that good? It's good for your health. I should have chosen an urban school back then. I 
really envy Sudou." 

I don't know what exactly is so funny, but suddenly Sasaki let out a hearty laugh that is not easily 
imitated. 

"Oh yeah Kyon, what did you come to this train station for? If we are travelling in the same 
direction, we can continue our conversation. I wouldn't mind sitting with you." 



I checked the time on my watch. Drats, I am only three minutes away from the agreed meeting 
time. 


"Sorry, Sasaki, I have already agreed to meet someone else. The person is especially conscious 
of time and God knows what dire consequences there would be if I were to be late." 

"Someone else? From high school? Oh, I see. Then I have to park the bicycle quickly. Ah, don't 
worry, I will be parking my bicycle here daily. I have a season ticket with the operator. As for 
the location..." 

Sasaki found an empty spot at the bicycle park and parked the bicycle there before turning back 
to me. 

"...It's here. Kyon, I want to follow you along to where you will be meeting the person. Your 
friends are my friends after all, I really want to see what they look like." 

There will be no benefits to seeing them. But since Sasaki wanted to take a look, I didn't really 
mind either. Although I felt that introducing them would not do any good for Sasaki's life. I do 
not really know why, but I feel very proud of myself when I am able to introduce the cute and 
gentle Asahina-san to others. 

After I found an empty parking spot and rushed to make the payment, Sasaki had already come 
over with the bag slung over one shoulder. We discussed fragments of our middle school life 
while on our way to the meeting place. When we were about to reach that place... 

"Kyon, you still haven't changed a bit." 

Sasaki said in a low voice. 

"Really?" 

"Yeah, I am relieved now." 

Why should you be relieved? Now that I look at it, you haven't changed either, have you? 

"If that were really so, it would have meant that neither of us had grown at all. If the result of my 
height and weight measurements were anything to go by, the amount of flesh on my body should 
have changed." 

Then I must have grown taller by a bit. 

"Sorry, I don't mean that. A person's appearance can be changed as and when he or she wants. 
For example, just leaving the hair to grow longer or cutting it short is enough to make a 
difference in the image you present to others. The aspect that is harder to change is the character. 
No matter if it improves or takes a turn for the worse, if humans are interested in material 



comforts, unless we make massive changes to the concept of material comfort, thought patterns 
and viewpoints are not easy to change." 



Sasaki continued talking while walking. 


Listening to this gave me a sense of familiarity. Oh yes, I remember now. Back in middle school, 
Sasaki always liked to ponder strange theories. 

"Also..." 

Sasaki continued talking while walking. 

"...There is the possibility of thoughts suddenly making a 180-degree turn, much like changes 
introduced by Nicolas Copernicus. Changes in the world are changes in ideologies. This 
probably represents everything, because it is impossible for humans to correctly understand 
creatures who have an intelligence exceeding that of themselves. Our eyes cannot see infrared 
rays, but snakes actually have eyes that work like heat-sensitive goggles, and rays like these are 



in plain view for them. When sound waves go beyond a certain level, our ears will be unable to 
pick them up, yet dogs and various other animals are able to hear ultrasound waves. Infrared rays 
and ultrasound waves produced by Gabon's whistle cannot be seen or heard by humans, but it 
does not mean they do not exist, just that we cannot feel their existence." 

Sasaki, perhaps you really should have come to North High. We have a guy here who sounds 
exactly like you. You would definitely get along very well with him. Fortunately, he will be at 
the meeting place as well. Do you want to use this opportunity to get to know him? 

Just when I was talking about such a meeting, images of every member of the SOS Brigade, with 
the exception of myself, of course, appeared before me. 


"You had indeed brought someone interesting along." 

Koizumi replied in a slightly offended manner. 

"From a particular perspective, we are indeed able to communicate with each other well. But in 
actual fact, people who seem like me cannot actually be compared to me. Our views are too 
different. I am pretty aware of my own limits, so people whom I admire philosophically are 
actually not too little. If I have to make an example, you are one of them." 

Even if you try to curry my favor like this, unlike the Priestess of Delphi, I would not tell you the 
Oracle. 

"This I understand. There is nothing scarier than force majeure. Those forces that can be seen by 
the eyes and heard by the ears yet remain uncontrollable really make people paranoid." 

You are right, this is what I am referring to. Sasaki is powerful in this way. After all, it's 
someone that I had spent the third year of my middle school life with, so of course I would 
understand that. But the fact that even Koizumi understood this fact made me really surprised. 


"This is nothing to be surprised about. You should know that the 'Organization' had once 
conducted investigation into your life right? Thus, it is obvious that everything about you since 
you were born was already analyzed before reaching the conclusion that you are a normal 
person." 


Thanks a lot then. I didn't realize that your 'Organization' is able to bestow upon me a Certificate 
of Guarantee. 



"If you feel there is a need to, I can always give you one. No, I am just joking. But when I knew 
that you knew Sasaki in third year of your middle school and even became close friends, my 
mood is no longer that of just joking around." 

Why? 

Koizumi continued as if he was reciting poetry. 

"Because your friend Sasaki, despite looking like a normal person, if observed in another way, 
could be extraordinary as well. Moving like a particle, each action Sasaki triggers causes 
disturbances, much like light." 

I don't care about whatever force majeure. I am already used to having random vocabulary words 
being thrown at me once in a while. As for the photoelectric behavior of light, I hope I would 
never come across it in my entire life. 


Back on topic, Sasaki and I had already reached the front of the train station. Where we were 
standing now was the usual meeting place of the SOS Brigade. 

I had gotten used to seeing the scenery as well as the people. Explanation: three of them in plain 
clothes, one in uniform. 

Then, the very appreciative words which the leader must always mention... 

"How dare you arrive late! I have already mentioned it countless times, not only are you the last 
to arrive, you even arrived later than the agreed meeting time! Don't become so lazy just because 
spring has arrived! Kyon, can't you just appreciate each and every passing second? Your time 
does not only belong to you, each of us here who has been waiting for you here have a share of it 
too! So, we should double your fine if you are late! Although the time that has past can never be 
gotten back again, you should at least try to make us a little happier." 

After Haruhi finished the entire paragraph in one breath, she took in a deep breath and looked at 
the person beside me with a surprised look. 

"Who is this?" 

"My, my, this person here is " 

Just when I was about to introduce 

" a really close friend." 


Sasaki added quickly. 



Eh? 


Haruhi widened her eyes. Sasaki gave a slight shake of the head and explained. 

"A friend from middle school, and for the third year only as well. Don't know if it is because of 
this, but this guy heartlessly cut off all forms of communication with me for the past year. 
Although I have done the same as well, but, despite meeting only after one precarious year, we 
are still able to talk to each other without being overly formal. Thus, I think that the relationship 
between the both of us could be considered close friends. To me, Kyon, it is indeed so." 

I would not deny that we were once very close friends. Back in the middle school days, I often 
mixed around with Sasaki. After class I hung out with Sasaki more in comparison to my other 
middle school classmates, I think. 

But why do I feel uneasy? I must first say that I did not remember doing anything that is against 
my conscience, in fact, I don't think I actually did any. But as I listened to how Sasaki said we 
were very close friends, seeing that strange expression on Haruhi's face, my feeling is like that of 

not bringing an umbrella out despite knowing that a storm will be arriving in five minutes 

Why exactly is this so? 

Now that I think about it, I can vaguely feel that the frequency of Asahina-san blinking her eyes 
had increased back then. Also, Koizumi had entered a state of deep thought with his hands 
rubbing his chin. In her uniform, Nagato stood at the same spot without moving, but I had 
already focused my attention on Haruhi, so I can't be sure either. 

At this moment, I noticed Sasaki stepping out half a step, lips curled into the shape of a crescent, 
revealing a smile and stretching out a hand, seemingly offering it for Haruhi to shake. 

"I am Sasaki, you must be Suzumiya-san. How do you do? I have heard a lot about you." 

Haruhi's eyes took a quick glance at me, as if I'm now forced to take the rap and become a 
criminal... 

"I didn't say anything about your devilish deeds! Sasaki, how do you know of Haruhi anyway?" 

"We live in the same area, and I tend to hear of controversial rumors once in a while. You are not 
the only one who went to North High from our school either, Kyon." 

Are you referring to people like Kunikida? 

"So he went to North High too? Hmm... is he okay? It must be relaxing for him. With his 
potential, he could be in a much better school, and yet he went to North High, what a strange 
person." 


Sasaki turned back to Haruhi after commenting on our ex-classmate. 



"I heard that Kyon has been under a lot of your care in North High. I hope you can continue to 
take care of him well." 

Sasaki did not withdraw the extended hand and revealed a kind smile. 

Haruhi, facing the American-gestured greeting from Sasaki, gave an expression of a child 
accidentally mistaking a pebble for chocolate and putting it in his or her mouth, but still shook 
Sasaki's hand eventually. 

"Sure." 

Haruhi held onto Sasaki's hand and stared its owner right in the eye. 

"Seems like I do not have to introduce myself then." 

"True." 

Sasaki stared back at Haruhi with a face full of smiles, and laughed with a voice like that of the 
croak of a baby Japanese tree frog before saying. 

"So how many seats are available over there?" 

Sasaki let go of Haruhi's hand with a sense of reluctance and swept through the people present. 

"Perhaps introducing the members is the role of the leader as well right?" Haruhi quickly 
countered. 

"The cutiepie on that side is Mikuru-chan, the one in her sailor uniform is Yuki and the one on 
this side is Koizumi." 

The people she pointed to slowly responded... 

"Ah... ah... I-I am Asahina Mikuru." 

Looking at the only senior in her spring outfit that would definitely sell very well if a "Mikuru 
Series" is ever launched, with both her hands holding onto a handbag, hurriedly turned over and 
bowed. 

"I am Koizumi." 

Our assistant brigade leader bowed politely at a near forty-five degree angle, as if he had special 
lessons from the 'butler' Arakawa. 


M 


M 


Wearing the uniform, dressed totally like she would be in school, Nagato remained motionless. 



After hearing the various responses from each of them, Sasaki must have thought it would be too 
troublesome, and so did not request for handshakes with the other few like Haruhi. 


"Hi all." 

After saying that, Sasaki evaluated each of the people standing in front with interest. 

And the three SOS Brigade members used their own ways to evaluate this unwanted guest. 
Asahina looked at Sasaki gingerly, Koizumi with his usual trademark smile and Nagato stared 
motionlessly with her eyes that looked like they were taken out of the deep oceans, submerged in 
seawater. 

Sasaki looked like someone that's trying to commit the names and looks of the three brigade 
members into their memory and stoned for a while, before turning back to me 

"So, Kyon, it's about time for me to embark on the train so I'll get going. See you soon. Bye~" 

Sasaki waved goodbye at us and proceeded to smile at Haruhi before walking towards the fare 
gate. 

My ex-classmate sure moves quickly. I stared blankly at Sasaki's back for a while until it 
disappeared, then I turned back. 

Although we hadn't met for a while, we didn't exactly speak much. Perhaps the next time we 
meet, another year may have passed again. 

After remaining silent for a few moments, Haruhi said. 

"That person is a bit strange." 

If even you felt the strangeness, it is definitely not just "a bit". 

After saying that, she turned her gaze away from the fare gate and back at us. 

"That friend of yours, has always been this way?" 

"Yeah. Not a single change at all, be it physically or mentally." 

"Hmm ?" 

Haruhi tilted her head, as if she wanted to empty out any unwanted thoughts she had recalled out 
from the ears, but very quickly forgot about adjusting her head angle but jumped and changed 
the direction her body was facing instead. 



"Forget it. Kyon, we'd better go to the restaurant now, your treat. I'm sure you've brought extra 
money along, right? If we see anything interesting at the flea market, we must try our best to buy 
it back!" 


Haruhi revealed a smile that was like the fluorescent light on display at the electrical 
departmental store and walked out of the station in big steps. 

My, my. If you simply asked me to carry things, I would be fine with it. But can't you buy 
anything you liked with your own money instead? Why should Nagato's Literature Club activity 
funds be used for this? I guess I must keep a close watch on her. 


"As for what happened later " 

I looked on as Koizumi said. 

"You should know by now. We went to the restaurant, I treated everyone to the meal, went to the 
flea market, Haruhi bought a whole load of things, and we had lunch at a restaurant with a sea 
view before going home. I also went to Miyoko's house on my way back." 

Don't tell me you had already forgotten that because you kept holding onto the chess set you 
bought from the old couple, all of the carrying duties were left to me. Thanks to you, I was 
forced to carry a whole load of junk, like the unpolished desert granite, while running around the 
area. The only things that offered me some consolation were the shrieks like "Waa~ What a 
simple toy... but it is really beautiful..." from Asahina-san, who was holding onto a kaleidoscope 
that looks like it was made by a grade school child, and Nagato, who seemed to be staring 
intently at some mask that looked like it belonged to some evil wizard from some ancient tribe. 

"So far, is there anything that doesn't seem right compared to your memory?" 

"Luckily, I don't think so." 

Koizumi said while surveying the monitor in earnest, 

"An objective truth is like what you have pointed out, there is nothing wrong. But, if we look at 
it subjectively, your opinion and mine seem to have some major differences." 

He turned his gaze towards me while saying that. It is such a gaze that I most cannot stand about 
him. 

"So, this is where the problem is. I said just now that the frequency of the appearance of 'Closed 
Spaces' had increased recently, or to put it more correctly, is comparable to when Suzumiya-san 
had just entered high school. Starting last year, and continuing until this year, the number of 



times I have had to work has decreased, but has recently spiked up to previous levels starting this 
spring. So what exactly is the reason?" 


I am getting increasingly impatient 

"What exactly do you want to say?" 

"Although I did not want to spell it out exactly, but there are times when some things, if not 
expressed in words, will never reach the hearts of others. Cases when speechless communication 
being able to transmit information accurately are few and far between, I shall illustrate the 
following as cause and effect. According to the current situation, the part on cause is the sentence 
'the last day of spring break’. Effects are 'Closed Spaces' and 'Celestials'. So, what exactly does 
this mean? This is my question to you." 


I am engulfed by the speechlessness like that of Nagato. Areas near my hindbrain started to hurt. 

Koizumi revealed a smile that looked like it is on a mask dug out from the Jomon Period. If 
nobody said this is a smile, I really would not understand. 

"Because Suzumiya-san started creating 'closed spaces' in the new school term, I can infer that 
there must have been a problem on the last day of spring break. And when we wonder what 
exactly could have happened, our normal SOS Brigade activities would not be of much 
importance. It is only that we spent one jovial day at the flea market. The only difference from 

normal circumstances would be the interference of the stranger as for the reason that would 

cause this, I think you should know that." 

Sasaki, huh. 

"But why? Sasaki is just a middle school friend whom I met by coincidence at our usual meeting 
place. Why did such a small thing turn into the source of Haruhi's problems?" 

Koizumi closed his mouth with a look of shock before looking at me more with a sense of 
connoisseurship than friendliness, just like when Shamisen first saw the cicada my younger 
sister caught and brought home, and continued this way for nearly ten seconds. 

Just when I wanted to wave my hand in front of his eyes to check if he was still conscious, this 
esper with a harmless-looking and handsome face shook his head quite strongly. 

"If you want me to say why " 

He turned towards me in exaggerated actions. 

"This is, of course, because of that self-proclaimed very close friend Sasaki of yours, who exudes 
a charm that is able to mesmerize eight out of ten guys ! " 



Koizumi used a voice with the determination of an evil imperial official wanting to assassinate 
the king. 


I have to reverse time back to two years ago from this time. 

During the spring after entering third- year middle school, I was forced to attend cram schools by 
my paranoid mother, who was afraid that I would be unable to make it to a high school. 

Coincidentally, Sasaki was in the same cram school class that I was, and also happened to be the 
only person in that class who was also from my middle school class. And also, very 
coincidentally, we happened to be sitting near each other. After that, though I am not really sure 
who began first, we started chatting. Although I do not exactly remember it very well now, but I 
think it began something like "Yo, you are having lessons here as well huh?" 

That is the turning point, and after that, in the middle school classroom, we made occasional 
small talk with each other. 

Although I didn't really pay special attention to it, I quickly noticed that the language used by 
Sasaki when she was with boys was different from that when she was with girls. 

I guess there must be some justification behind her doing that. Could it be that the reason she 
chose to use the male form of speech is that she hoped that the other party would not treat her 
like a girl? Maybe that is equal to warning others not to treat her as a love interest or something? 
Maybe it's just me being oversensitive? 

Of course, anything is fine with me. That is why I have never interfered with her decision on this 
matter. Also, I do not have enough confidence in my language skills to the extent that I am able 
to correct others. 

As for my name, Sasaki seemed to find it very interesting. 

"Kyon huh what a special nickname. Why were you given such a nickname?" 

I explained the stupid reason behind it as well as my younger sister's antics with angst. 

"Oh so what is your real name?" 

After telling her verbally, Sasaki turned her neck and pupils in different directions. 

"So this is how Kyon's name came about. So how do you write it out? Ah. Don't tell me first. Let 
me try and predict it." 

The enthusiastic Sasaki thought for a while, before laughing out loud. 



Is this how it is written? 


After saying that, she picked up her mechanical pencil and started writing on the notebook. After 
seeing what she wrote, I let out a gasp of surprise. Sasaki wrote my name pretty accurately. 

"Can you tell me the reason why you have such a royal and imposing name?" 

And so I told her the reason, which my father told me when I asked him when I was still young, 
verbatim. 

"That’s great " 

After Sasaki said that, it kind of influenced me to think the same way as well. 

"But, I still like the name Kyon more. The more I hear it, the nicer it sounds. Can I call you that? 
Or would you want me to consider calling you by other names instead? Because you seem like 
you don't really like this nickname of yours..." 

How did you know that I don't like it? 

"Because I got a quicker response when I called you by your real name than when I called you 
by your nickname. The difference was about 0.2 seconds I suppose." 

That is because only those people who have proper business to talk with me will address me by 
my real name. For example, during lesson time when teachers ask a question or those people 

whom I do not know as well especially when it is girls or something like that and you just 

said 0.2 seconds? You can tell that kind of difference? 

"Normally, this is the amount of time it takes for the signals to reach the brain and effect the 
action. You may think that you are responding immediately when others call you, but perhaps 
you didn't notice it yourself Kyon, it is actually a little slower. So I thought that maybe deep in 
your heart, you do not really like the nickname." 

Now that I think about it, this is the first time I heard of so much jargon at once. 

The cram school lessons happened three days every week, on Tuesdays, Thursdays and 
Saturdays. They were always at night. 

Other than the Saturdays when there was no school, every Tuesday and Thursday, I would go to 
the cram school together with Sasaki. The cram school was near the biggest train station in this 
area. If we were to walk there from my middle school, we would probably never reach there 
even after the soles of our shoes had tom apart. And though public buses could have taken us 
there as well, we would have ended up taking a big loop to arrive there. So the best way would 
be to cycle from the school to the train station in a straight line distance. By this method, we can 
arrive at the cram school within fifteen minutes. 



Since my house was just along the straight-line distance from my middle school to the cram 
school, I would often bring out my bicycle from my house before cycling to the cram school. 
After all, this is theoretically the best way to go about it. And so it became a habit to have Sasaki 
ride on pillion out of convenience. Sasaki said that this would help her save quite an amount of 
transport fees and was very grateful to me. 

Although we were in the same class in the cram school as well, there wasn't exactly a lot of free 
time for us to chat all day long. Both of us would fit into the atmosphere and work hard with 
everyone else. Because of this, the steadily decreasing curve on my report card in middle school 
second year stopped moving downwards, allowing me to relax a little. After seeing the scores 
moving up with each passing test, my mother, who forced me into the cram school against all 
odds, felt gratified. 

If my mother could have changed her pet phrase that "If you do not study well, you will not be 
able to make it into the same university as Sasaki-san.", it would have been even better. I just do 
not understand why must I get into the same university as her. 

Every time, after the cram school was over, the world would have already turned dark. I would 
often raise my head up and admire the bean-sized natural satellites in the sky while pushing my 
bicycle along, with Sasaki following closely behind. I would normally accompany Sasaki, who 
takes a public bus home, to the nearest bus stop. 

"So Kyon, see you tomorrow in school." 

Sasaki would enter the long-awaited public bus and would wave to me while saying the above. 
Then I would be on my way home 

Okay, that's all for the reminiscing. 


"I cannot believe you two had already progressed to that stage." 

Koizumi placed his finger on his eyebrow. 

"This is simply like a scene from a pure and innocent middle school love story, isn't it?" 

You can say that, but Sasaki and I do not have that wonderful feeling of a boy-girl romantic 
relationship. Wait, let's not talk about whether it is wonderful or not, after all there is none. 

"Yeah, of course it is this way. If you think this way, of course it would be correct. But how 
would the people around you see it? If they saw you like this, what would they think about?" 


Don't know why I have this bad premonition. Back then, Kunikida and Nakagawa had 
misunderstood Sasaki and my relationship too 



"See, didn't I misunderstand too? After hearing you say this, it is obvious anyone would think 
that way. Of course I am not the only one who will think this way. And of course, after those two 
understand your circumstances, they would quit worrying after a while and not take it to heart. 
But I know there is one person who would really mind." 

" Who?" 

Koizumi's smile had a tinge of evilness. The look in his eyes seemed to be blaming me for 
something. 

"If I reached this point and you still cannot respond properly, I think there is a need to cut your 
brain open and write the name there directly." 

I knew it. 

"But it's still unbelievable " 

On my head, I felt as if there were a whole lot of worms on it. 

"Haruhi saw Sasaki, and even heard her calling me a very close friend. But must she throw a 
tantrum? Is it her subconscious at work again?" 

"Closed Spaces and Celestials, they are phenomena which you should know about, but the 
current situation is different when compared to the past. While the Closed Spaces have not 
undergone any significant change, the movement of the Celestials is strangely quiet. Although 
they appear, they usually would cause major destruction, but instead stand around doing nothing. 
In fact, only once in a while are they reminded of their own duty and knock lightly on a few 
buildings around them." 

The greenish-white monster is starting to gain sense, isn't it a good thing? 

"To the 'Organization', it is the same. Because if we do not destroy these Celestials, the Closed 
Space would not disappear." 

Koizumi continued his explanation... 

"From a conclusive point of view, the Celestials are currently in a state of daze, or Suzumiya-san 
is. It is as if she does not know what she is thinking, or even make sense of what she is thinking 
about. And so she could only drift along this dreary state of hers, thinking about her problems 
subconsciously." 

I think Mr. Sigmund Freud should be laughing in the other world. I am sure he did not expect 
the results of his research to be used so commonly to analyze Haruhi. 


"From my viewpoint, if we attribute everything to Suzumiya-san's jealousy of Sasaki-san, 
everything will be much easier to understand." 



I am afraid I have to rebut this statement. I did not say the following for anyone else, but for the 
good of Haruhi 

"She was the one who mentioned that love relationships are a kind of mental illness!" 

"Then I shall ask you, do you think Suzumiya-san's psychological skills would be able to see 
through all the different kinds of love between males and females?" 

How is this possible? 

"I thought so too. Suzumiya-san may look like she understands it very well, but she actually 
knows zilch about it. Let me put this in another way. Her maturity does not seem much different 
from the girls of the same age as her. If you only look at these areas, you will see that she is 
actually a very normal teenage girl, except that she tries to act cool once in a while." 

I don't think you are qualified enough to say that. From my perspective, strangely, you are 
someone who likes to act cool a lot as well. 

"Really?" 

Koizumi stopped his smile that resembled that of an ancient mask, while he stroked his cheeks as 
if acting. 

"It seems my skills are still not enough, you actually saw through it so easily." 

He spread out his two hands and shook his head. 

"If we are to analyze this, then we can say that after Suzumiya-san found out that you have a 
friend that she doesn't know of from the past, and had an emotion that could not be described. 
Although she might have thought that such a case may actually be true, but after all, she hadn't 
seen it happening till then. Such an emotion cannot be described as just jealousy, but an emotion 
that is more primitive and present deep inside one. Or we could describe it as unexpected. Even 
if it is you, you ought to have at least one or two friends. This, Suzumiya-san can understand. 
Even if there are any female friends, there is nothing to be surprised about. But having Sasaki- 
san proclaim herself that you are a very close friend of hers is something that is unexpected. 

Even though I already knew of her existence, it is still something unexpected for me as well." 

"I still do not quite no, I still totally do not understand this, really." 

"Because Suzumiya-san had always been mostly alone throughout middle school, or rather in a 
state of loneliness, perhaps the words very good friend shocked her." 

"Didn't she want it that way herself? Where she would be 'aloof from worldly affairs'?" 


"Even if so, it still cannot be avoided. For example, if I have a friend of the opposite gender 
whom you do not know of suddenly appearing in front of you, how would you feel?" 



"Do you have any?" 

I lifted my body outwards while asking that. Even if this guy has a girlfriend behind my back, it 
wouldn't be surprising at all. 

Koizumi gave a bitter smile. 

"This example is perhaps not very good. My situation does not seem very appropriate in this 
case. So if Asahina-san had a very close male friend in the past, and they are still rather close 
even till now?" 

Of course I wouldn't feel good about it. 

"This can't be quite possible. Asahina-san and Nagato are not here to play or sightsee." 

I think that it would be better if they were able to unwind a bit more and have fun instead. And 
Asahina-san's past is actually the future that is very far from us isn't it? 

"This is only an assumption. What if it is true, what would you think of? Although it is only my 
imagination, but there should be a strange feeling that could not be described isn't there? It isn't 
jealousy, nor is it puzzling. First, Asahina-san did not pay any special attention to the guy, and 
on the surface, it is as if there are no special feelings between them. Thus, questioning them 
aimlessly would be pretty stupid. And so attempting to forget such an incident is the best way to 
go about it. And now, you can try applying the example of Asahina-san and yourself to you and 
Suzumiya-san." 

Cheers from a small group could be heard from the opposite of the quadrangle. It seems a first- 
year has decided to join a particular society. 

Koizumi turned his head in that direction. 

"However, one's subconscious mind isn't so easily fooled. That is why as the subconscious mind 
tries to vent its feelings, Closed Spaces and incomplete Celestials are formed. Although the 
reason for this seems very clear, in actual fact it is not. And that is why there is no good strategy 
to counter it. Actually it is not really true that there are none " 

Koizumi squinted harder with each passing second. 

"Kyon! Koizumi!" 

Haruhi, along with Asahina-san, was walking towards us with steps that seemed as if she was 
trying to break the ground of the quadrangle, her hands placed over Asahina-san's shoulders. 


Kyaa~! Ow, ow ow 



Because the difference in distance covered in each step was probably about five times more for 
one than the other, Asahina-san's legs simply could not handle it at all. Haruhi simply ignored 
this point and dragged her along as if she were prey she just caught and walked towards us. 

I originally thought she would at least bring a first-year along, but she actually returned empty- 
handed. Even cheongsams and maid costumes are not enough to catch a single fish? Seems the 
first-years of this year are people with good general knowledge. 

Haruhi stood in front of the LCD monitor screening the trailer, still refusing to let go of Asahina- 
san. 

"Is there anybody interested in joining coming by? What about Yuki? Is there anyone?" 

I think that Nagato's head seems to be shaking slightly side to side. 

"We went to many places, but they all don't make the grade. No way. There are some who, after 
hearing that they would be able to drink Mikuru-chan's self-brewed tea if they joined the brigade, 
had their saliva dripping all over the ground. Those who nodded their heads to that would have 
failed the first part of my admission test. As for the girls, as soon as we got near them, they 
started running away. Seems there isn't much luck this year." 

I am afraid that we are giving others the false impression that we are a Cosplay Research 
Society 

"But I still think that there should at least be one person who can pass the test. Everything had 
only just begun! Just begun! Kyon, are there any interesting juniors from your middle school? I 
definitely don't think there will be any from mine, so all those who came from East Junior High 
should be ignored. I forgot to inform you all about this until just now." 

While Haruhi is talking loudly just now, her face 

Showed a beautiful smile that radiated the glow of a nuclear fusion of multiple stars. I don't think 
there are any words other than glitzy that can describe it better. 

On that day, we still failed to achieve anything in the end, and so we could only return to the 
clubroom in a dark mood. 

Asahina-san heaved a huge sigh of relief that seemed to have emerged from the bottom of her 
heart, before carrying the teapot to the stove and started heating them. On the other hand, both 
Koizumi and I buried our heads in the messy wires coiling all over the table. 

Nagato rolled the stickers that are labeled Literature Club into a ball and threw them into the 
rubbish bin, much like how one does with a tissue one just cleared his or her nose with, 
delicately placed the club magazine sample back onto the bookshelf, as if holding onto a gem, 
before mechanically moving back to a corner of the clubroom and opening up a hardcover book. 
Although she sat pretty far away from us just now, I don't think she wouldn't have overheard my 



conversation with Koizumi. But the emotionless face and lips in power-saving mode of the alien 
humanoid interface that haven't changed in the past year brought me unlimited serenity and 
calmness. 

Haruhi sat on the seat reserved for the brigade chief and shook the pyramid-shaped sign with her 
fingers at the top part of the figure. 

"Seems like there is nobody interesting among the first-years. Looks like we have to widen the 
search area after all. Maybe the ones with potential had entered the sports clubs. People will 
never appear by themselves if we keep waiting. It is always better when the sea is larger and the 
frequency of casting a net is increased." 

Haruhi crossed her slim legs that are emerging from the cheongsam, revealing an expression of a 
person popular with children thinking of the next game to play with them. No matter how you 
look at it, it shows excitement. 

As for my own opinion, instead of mindlessly casting nets, why not find a specific place and fish 
there with a fishing rod instead? It might be easier to catch large and quality fish this way. But I 
have no plans to share my thoughts with her and thus automatically participate in her plan to 
tempt and abduct members. 

"I have no decision to let go of big fish either. In fact, I am thinking of surveying clubrooms one 
by one and getting hold of them before they decide to join the other clubs.. We have so many 
students here, there must be at least one that fits our appetite." 

Fits your appetite? So what flavor of first-year would you like? It would be best if they could be 
eaten right after being roasted. 

"For example, those that are cuter than Mikuru-chan, more obedient than Yuki, more courteous 
than Koizumi, all these kinds would do." 

You are sure setting a high standard. Plus, the only realistic option that Haruhi gave of the three 
would be for Asahina-san only. Let's not say that the actual reason for having Nagato is 
"Wearing spectacles is so unique" kind of crap. At that time, it is because the clubroom Haruhi 
wanted to occupy belonged to Nagato's Literature Club that Nagato was accepted as a member. 
As for Koizumi, it is only because he was a "mysterious transfer student" in Haruhi's terms that 
allowed him to enter. Will she get the next person who transfers over in May as well? 

"The spot for mysterious transfer student is already filled by Koizumi and so it is enough. And 
he has been quite an excellent assistant brigade leader. There is no longer a need for a similar 
role anymore. It must be someone interesting. The SOS Brigade only recruits the very best after 
all." 


After turning on the computer, Haruhi supported her head with one hand and clicked the mouse 
with the other. 



I am so careless. 


You being extremely careless didn't exactly start now. 

"I should have surveyed the middle schools in this region and taken note of all those with 
potential. Otherwise, if those who could have been our club members entered other high schools, 
it would be too much of a waste. Why don't we set up branches of the SOS Brigade in other 
schools as well? Or should we set up a preparatory SOS Brigade in nearby middle schools 
instead?" 

Haruhi's fantasies seems to be reaching intoxicating levels. I let out a sigh. 

"What are we recruiting so many members for? Are you planning to set up an American football 
team?" 

"My SOS Brigade must go global as fast as possible. Isn't hard drive space increasing all the time 
as well? My target is the entire world. If we do not globalize, how can we survive in this 
globalizing world?" 

So globalization comes after the information age? I still like my current humble life more. My 
current status is a high school student without any proper credentials anyway. I am not so 
oblivious to my own limits as to globalize a simple brigade like this. 

Why don't you find a place and set up a private school next time and become its principal and 
name it the SOS School instead? You can then force everyone to become SOS Brigade members 
at that time. Hmm now that I think about it, such a thought is rather scary. 

"Haha, that is so stupid, I don't want to set up a business." Haruhi exclaimed with laughter. "We 
are not even profit-driven!" 

This is considered an improvement perhaps. Although she spewed a whole lot of unrealistic 
things, but if it was the Haruhi of last year, she would have insisted on attending the clubs and 
societies briefing and printed large volumes of SOS fliers and distributing a piece to any random 
person. I don't know if it is because of that strict student council president with his shining eyes, 
but Haruhi has gone underground instead. 

It seems that while she still plans to have multiple SOS Brigade branches, she isn't yet willing to 
accept anyone that comes by the brigade headquarters. I guess she hopes that every member who 
joined the brigade would bring her a strange surprise. For example, victims of alien abductions, 
time travelers waking up and finding themselves in the past, espers fighting bad guys in alternate 
dimensions, people like that. These would be the types she definitely wanted to hear from. 

Those things used to be what I wanted to hear too. 

But, at this moment, I do not think there is a need to anymore. 



I am playing chess with Koizumi, sipping on the tea prepared by Asahina-san to moisten my 
throat, using the corner of my eye to monitor Nagato, who is sitting in a corner in the correct 
sitting posture, reading a book, all the while thinking about... 

The official members of SOS Brigade shouldn't be increasing anymore, right? 

Even though we have people like Tsuruya as our Honorary Advisor, Sakanaka a non-member 
supporter, or when we take over clubs like what we did with the Computer Research Society, it 
is very unlikely that there would be new members who can join us five, who already have our 
roots deeply embedded in the brigade, and stay for long. This is what the current me thinks now. 

This is just my prediction after all, and there isn't any reason that justifies this. I only 
subconsciously felt so, and the reason for this could probably be explained by Carl Gustav Jung. 


In the end, my prediction was half-right and half-wrong. But, I must add a classic sentence 
here the current me is obviously unable to predict what would happen in the future. 


I guess no one would have expected such a troublesome thing to happen, no matter if the person 
was Koizumi, Nagato, or perhaps even Asahina-san (big) as well. 

As for the source of all these troubles, it can be no one else other than Suzumiya Haruhi. 


(Volume 9 Prologue End) 



Chapter 1 

It happened the next day, a Friday. 

That habit of Haruhi's from the first year, leaving class for most of the break time, is still 
conducted daily even though it's a new year. So it was no surprise that when the bell rang, 
signifying the end of fourth period, our brigade leader immediately vanished. I, also in my 
second year, still ate lunch with Taniguchi and Kunikida at the same table. 

I don't care about Taniguchi, but once I see Kunikida's harmless face, I can't help but think of 
Sasaki, whom I'd met several days earlier. I tried not to make it obvious so that he wouldn't 
notice, but he saw me looking at him. 

"What's the matter? Do you really like omelettes so much?" 

Kunikida acted exactly like Sasaki said he would and replied 'lightly'. 

"No, nothing." 

I immediately replied. 

"I'm just surprised we still managed to get put in the same class." 

"That's true." 

Stopping those hands of his that had been continuously separating and scattering the okazu (side 
dishes), Kunikida lifted his head. 

"I'm very happy. When I first saw the class listings, I almost couldn't believe my eyes." 

I had certainly been sure that you were going to be in the sciences class. 

"That's what I was going to do at first. But I'm not very good at humanities, so I want to use this 
year to get better at them. I'll prioritize the sciences when we get to our third year. Also, in the 
second year, they start to categorize both the Humanities and the Sciences. That means there are 
a lot more choices for classes, and running around to get to them all becomes very tiring, 
especially by the second semester." [Note - Studies are separated into 2 main streams, science 
and arts. Chemistry, physics, biology all fall under science while economics, languages, history 
would fall under Arts. Since during the first year of Kyon and friend's they study 
science/humanities(arts) in general, categorizing as mentioned above would be to further derive 
it specifically to individual subjects/fields such as chemistry. Hope that helps.] 

As for Taniguchi... Meh, I don't really care what happened here. 


"Hey, that's cruel, Kyon," Taniguchi protested. "I originally wanted to get into a class with 
prettier girls. My goal was something along the lines of Class six " 



With that, his gaze started to slide towards the girls in our class. 


"Look, absolutely nothing has changed. And I'm still with you guys " 

He's still such a vulgar rascal, that much hasn't changed. I guess that's good. We'll do the same 
thing as last year, and 'Help please!' on the tests. 

"This I can promise you: I will not let that piece of paper change my life. Leave it to me." 

The way you pound your chest and assert that does make me feel a bit better, but I wonder if you 
could live up to such exaggerated claims. I would have no complaints if Taniguchi had some 
latent abilities or special talents to back that statement up. If that was the case, I might have a 
chance at convincing my mother that grades are just meaningless numbers. 

"But, I never expected to be in the exact same class as Suzumiya five years in a row. Isn't that the 
worst? She and I shouldn't have anything to do with each other." 

Now that Taniguchi said it, I do feel it's a bit unbelievable. Things that happen more often than is 
good for them often have another face; I've seen many examples of this. 

Taniguchi and I both shut up at the same time, but what we were thinking about was likely 
different. Kunikida spoke up, 

"The chance of two people having the same birthday in a group of thirty people is extremely 
high. So this actually isn't too surprising, right?" 

Even though that sounds like it makes sense, it's hard to believe. 

"Should we calculate the odds then?" 

No no, it's okay. I can barely stand looking at those weird markings and formulas, even in math 
class. Don't calculate it mentally either. I don't want to compare my brain with anyone else's. 

Only Haruhi would participate in that kind of contest. The only type of contest I would ever enter 
is one where I get to guess who is going to sit behind me when we change seats. 

The person sitting behind me is the same one from last year, the one who runs out of the 
classroom as soon as lunch arrives. I'm pretty sure she's gone to patrol the first-year classrooms. I 
wonder if the first- years think her behavior is strange. 

If there is anyone with even the slightest interest in the same things that she likes, she'll barge 
right into that class without thinking. As I ate my lunch, I prayed for those new students: don't 
run to the school office after being frightened by an upperclassman who suddenly burst in. 
However, since I didn't know what god is in control of these types of things, I was unable to 
offer a sacrifice of money. I think the god heard me anyway, because when the bell rang for fifth 
period, Haruhi didn't have those sparkling, bright eyes I know all too well as she ran hurriedly 
into the classroom. 



How'd the fishing go?" I asked. 


"Not one bite." 

The tone of her voice didn't have too much disappointment in it. In fact, it's just like her normal, 
cold, unexcited voice. Her attitude was similar to the time she couldn't find any Arowana in the 
Neighbour's pond. That's just how she sounds now. 

After school, I walked with Haruhi to the clubroom as instinctively as breathing. 

Since we've advanced to the next grade, our classroom has changed. Meaning the clubroom is 
much closer than before, though it's still not very convenient. 

"I think it's convenient enough." 

Haruhi said, swinging her bookbag back and forth. 

"The cafeteria and store are both closer than before. That's good, because it's really hard to find a 
place to sit at lunch. I've always wondered why they don't just add some more seats." 

This kind of complaint should go to the Student Council President. If you start a petition and 
give him the signatures, he might actually be able to do something about it. 

"I don't want to owe that person anything." 

She sped up, all the while shaking her head like a shy kid [ED note- I'm not sure about the word 
choice here. First of all, Haruhi acting like a shy kid... Also, shy kids shake their heads?]. 

"We will not help or support that evil organization. I hate the type of person who starts asking for 
something in return once they help you a little. That's why I prefer to work things out by myself." 

If you decide to start building an extension for the cafeteria, trouble will follow. Also, the money 
the literature club gets isn't enough for something like that. 

"If I was going to do it, I wouldn't bother telling anyone. Besides, everyone would be happy once 
it’s finished." 

I advise you to abandon this idea. If you don't, you'll be in the newspapers. Next time I see 
Tsuruya-san, I'll have to tell her about this and warn her that even if Haruhi asks for help, she 
shouldn't comply. Tsuruya-san [something], and wouldn't just randomly listen to Haruhi's orders, 
but I think I should tell her anyways. 

I worked hard on getting Haruhi's attention away from the business of the extension. 

"So, Haruhi, still haven't found a first-year who's to your liking?" 



Huh? 


Although I am glad that she stopped thinking about the cafeteria, Haruhi's sharp gaze made me 
feel a bit uncomfortable. 

"I didn't know you cared about that. Surprising, surprising. I thought you would object when I 
got some new members, but I guess you want some underclassmen too?" 

Of course I don't want any. But, if there was a brigade member lower in rank than me, I could 
delegate all the tasks I usually do onto him, I would feel more relaxed. That's not a bad idea. 
Koizumi's the 'Assistant Chief, Asahina-san's the 'Mascot/Secretary/Assistant Chief, and Nagato 
is formally the literature club leader/president, though only in name. That leaves me as the only 
member without a position. 

"What? So you want an official position? Then I guess I'll consider it. But this requires some 
promotion tests. 5 written's and 2 practicals. 

No thanks, then. The only thing I want is a driver's license. 

"If that's what you say, I take it you've given up. If you beg me, y'know, I might not say no." 

I'll be fine with 'Brigade Member No. T. Actually, that's the best position. 

"Mm, so you finally see?" 

As Haruhi revealed that devilish grin of hers, we arrived at the clubroom. 

Opening the door without even knocking, Haruhi entered the clubroom as if it were her house. 
Me... well, I can't do that, because I wouldn't want to walk in on Asahina-san changing, so I 
always make sure before opening the door. I don't think anyone complains about that habit. 


The only person inside is Nagato. 

Sitting at the corner of the desk in her favorite chair, she calmly reads a mathematician's 
biography. It seems no matter how fast I get here, she's always earlier than I am. Does she never 
have 'cleaning duty’ to do? That’s very possible. 

Haruhi put her bookbag on the table, then sat down in the Brigade Leader chair. I put my bag 
beside Haruhi's, and sat down in my regular seat. 

I listened to the 'karikari' sound of the hard disk running while surveying yesterday's game of Go, 
which we didn't bother to clean up afterwards. It was an unfinished 'Tsumego'. The mosaic of 
white and black pieces was placed in such a way that someone was obviously going to win. In 



three moves black was going to have a semi-victory. If even I could see that, the player must be a 
complete novice. 


"Kyon, tea." 

We should wait for Asahina-san to show up. With her tea-steeping skills, even if she was 
reincarnated and started talking to a modern-day Furuta Oribe, she would get along just fine. 

"That's going overboard. We don't need to start talking about tea ceremonies. If you became the 
founder of the Asahina school of steeping tea, the cult-like tea ceremony school would be 
heralded as genuine." 

Haruhi's gaze never left the monitor. She pulled on the keyboard, as if she was about to type out 
some article. I wondered what type of article as I looked at her suspiciously. 

"Oh, yeah, you were writing something yesterday too. Updating a blog?" 

"It's private. A secret document. If it's found by people outside the brigade, there will be big 
problems. If there's a leak, you'll be the primary suspect." 

Broadly grinning, Haruhi continued pounding at the keyboard quickly. She's skilled at things like 
this. 

I shrugged my shoulders, walked towards the fridge and took out a bottle of already-made 
Oolong tea. I poured myself a cup and then some for Haruhi and Nagato too. 

Even though I put it right in front of Nagato, she didn't move a muscle. Haruhi, as usual, just 
chugged the whole thing in one gulp. I stole a glance at the screen. The PC monitor showed a 
new typing document. 

"Making booklets to hand out again?" 

"That's not it," was Haruhi's response, shoving the now-empty cup towards me. "I'm making this 
in case something happens. This is a test paper. Don't look at me like that. I'm not telling you to 
make it." 

Well, who's the test for? 

"That doesn't even matter. Don't look at it. How am I supposed to write it if you're watching?" 

Haruhi put both hands over the screen so I couldn't see, so I returned to my seat. 

As I drank my iced Oolong while aimlessly putting pieces onto the board, Koizumi entered the 
room. While I do feel bad about it, I felt sort of happy he was here. I don't know why, but today, 

I felt like that. I thought since he would be very busy today, he wouldn't come to the clubroom, 
and if there's no one to play games with me, it gets very boring. 



"Homeroom was a bit long today." 

He explained, closing the door. A smile showed up as he saw the board. 

"There's nowhere I can place a piece, so I surrender." 

And there's his smile. Since he's in front of Haruhi, he has to display that all the time, but I think 
it seems different. Heading for his seat, he cleared the board, and asked, 

"One game?" 

Iitomo. But I need to go easy on him. It's not much fun beating the same person every time. I'm 
not like Haruhi, who thinks wins and losses matter. 

"That’ll help." 

Koizumi chose Black, and placed four handicap stones on the board. 

And with that Koizumi and I wordlessly started our board game battle. [D:] Nagato, like always, 
simply continued reading. The only sound I could hear was the 'karikari' of Haruhi continuously 
typing on her keyboard and the sounds of the sports clubs seeping in through the closed window. 

A silent Spring day. Tranquil and completely normal; nothing has changed. 

After five minutes, there was a quiet knock at the door. 

"Sorry for being late." 

Asahina-san entered with her usual timidness, and beside her is... 

"Yoohoo!” 

Tsuruya-san raised her hand and waved. Her ear-to-ear smile brought life to the room. 

"Hello everyone, I'm here today to give you all an invitation! Wahaha, it's for 'flower-viewing' 
part two!" 

This time, apparently, it will be at the time of the next Golden Week. 

Tsuruya-san gave us those high-class invitations, the ones that look like 'GanShinKei - MM0’ 
personally written out using an ink brush, the ones where the only thing I can understand is the 
date. If Haruhi didn't read it out for me, I was already planning to visit a museum to get them to 
explain it. 

After Asahina-san changed into her maid outfit - Koizumi and I left the room for that - she 
started to make some hot tea. The SOS-dan's unexpected visitor, after the initial 'Fuha~', said, 



"Last time, we saw the V / -f 3 'y / - somei yoshino flowers. This time, it's 'AJStlc - 
Yaezakura' ! Because, in the olden days, when someone mentioned cherry blossoms, that's what 
everyone thought of. My family's yard does have a lot of wild cherry blossoms. Even though 
there are currently a lot of moths around, it's still quite pretty." 

Tsuruya-san took a sip of her tea, then shut her eyes. 

[I assume she's singing a song? O ol 

"[More lyrics], ne?" / its some Japanese poetry lines, Tsuruya starts the line while Haruhi finishes 
it graciously, and we’ll just be as clueless as Kyon] 

Haruhi quickly recited the next line, energetically nodding her head. 

"Now, with all sorts of plants able to be raised wherever we want, we should criticize [?] some 
places a bit more. We should wait until after all the other trees have bloomed and wilted, then 
encourage the ones that are still blooming. Sasuga [ $ A A A (adv) (1) as might be expected; (2) 
though; after all - Dunno how to fit that into this sentence D: ED: I hear this pretty often in anime 
and it seems to have a "as usual, good job, I expected no less" connotation], Tsuruya-san." 

There's nothing that describes Tsuruya-san better than 'Sasuga'. Is it possible that Tsuruya-san is 
actually descended from the nobility of the Asuka period? 

"How should I know about these age-old matters? It doesn't really matter, anyways! If you really 
want to know, I could check my family tree, but that takes too much effort!" 

The way she speaks makes Tsuruya-san seem very reliable. I hope she will be able to grow old 
with Asahina-san. Just like the Queens of Hearts and Diamonds. Because if Tsuruya-san is with 
Asahina-san, no one will be hitting on her. Haruhi? Ahh. She can be a joker. Because you can't 
do without it in 'Five-card'. 

As I was admiring, as always, Asahina-san in her maid dress, Tsuruya-san and Haruhi, 

[Four lines of poems. Ogura Hyakunin Isshu no. 33 in two lines and no 35 in two lines, to be 
exact, http://etext.lib.virginia.edu/japanese/hyakunin/frames/hyakuframes.html XD] 

Started a reciting contest. 

[Ogura Hyakunin Isshu no. 66 - two lines] 

[Ogura Hyakunin Isshu no. 67 - two lines] 

[Ogura Hyakunin Isshu no. 7 - two lines] 


[Ogura Hyakunin Isshu no. 94 - two lines] 



Now it doesn't even have to do with cherry blossoms during Spring anymore. We've gone into 
Summer already, possibly even Autumn. 


"Fufuu-n? Then, how about this one?" 

Tsuruya-san, with an enthusiastic expression, 

[Some poem] 

"Eh?" 

Someone who used to be able to keep up suddenly faltered. 

"Does that exist? Whose poem is it?" 

Tsuruya-san's hard question had a very weird answer. I think this is the first time I've ever heard 
that. 


" [Nagato finishes the poem]" 

Flipping the page, Nagato answered with her head down. 

"?Mf^M[Minamoto no Toshiyori]. If Adrift." 

"Yarunee, as I expected of the all-knowing Majin Yuki." 

Tsuruya-san cackled and complimented her, but Nagato's expression didn't change one bit. And I 
don't know why they think this game is so interesting. I'll ask them later. 

Tsuruya-san then said three different poems, and when Nagato answered them, she said, as if 
satisfied, 

"Well then! See you later. Thanks, Mikuru. The tea was very tasty, you know! I'll depend on you 
this year too!" 

After saying that, she left the clubroom. I think the way she comes and goes resembles the wind. 
It will leave as soon as you find it... 

But Tsuruya-san really is a genius at lightening up the mood. What sort of things would she be 
bad at? She would be the hardest person in the world for me to imagine how her crying face 
would look like, she sure is something. 

Haruhi continued to sip her tea noisily. 



"That takes care of the schedule for the golden week then. Yep, let us all go flower viewing and 
write some short poems. Make sure you write something that will be recorded in a poetry book 
and remembered by the future generations." 

Maybe she got tired of typing, Haruhi is now holding the invitation left by Tsuruya-san in both 
hands and staring at it like some sort of historical artifact. Can't we write Sinryu instead? Before 
I could voice my proposal, Haruhi seemed to have remembered something and said: 

"Let's leave it at that for now. I have to announce the schedules for tomorrow first." 



Tsuruya-san cackled and complimented her, but Nagato's expression didn't change one bit. 

Haruhi jumped onto the top of the desk and made an iron horse stance while shouting with a 
bright smile on her face: 


Now then! Let the SOS brigade's first meeting of a new year begin! 



There is no record of the total number of meetings the SOS brigade has had, and Haruhi and I 
don't seem to remember either. Which means we can just reset it back to one, since it is the first 
meeting of the year and all. And the contents of this meeting are as follows: 

"This Saturday, which is tomorrow! Everybody gather in front of the station at 9am! Don't you 
guys think it's about time for those mysterious events to make their appearance? We've been 
looking for them for soo long now, don't you think they are thinking of meeting with us for a 
change? It's even Spring to boot! Let's get them when they're napping under the warm sunlight!" 

We are not talking about Shamisen the wild cat retiree, and that plan of yours isn't going to work 
even if you were after some wild cats. 

"Listen here, Kyon. It's almost a year since the brigade's been established! We don't have much 
time left, what do we have to show if we have zero results?" 

Show who? 

"Ourselves! You can be lax to others all you want, but you must be strict to yourself or you'll 

never be anything! It's like that saying was it small profits and big turnovers... no.... self 

satisfaction... no... trails and hardships... that's not it either... Mikuru-chan, do you know how it 
goes?" 

"Eh?" 

Being asked a random question out of the blue, Asahina-san put her index finger on her jaw and 
said: 

"Is it self insured?" 

"Was it proper accordance?" 

Koizumi said that without moving his eyes off the black go stone. Just when I thought of coming 
up with one too- 

"The words that correspond to that meaning do not exist in the dictionary." 

Thanks to what Nagato said, I gladly give up my turn to come up with something. Maybe you 
should make one yourself, Haruhi. Something along the lines of respect and properness? 

Haruhi ignored me and turned to Nagato. 

"Really? I think there's something like that..." 


But the brigade leader that never listened to any of our opinions seemed to agree with Nagato in 
the end. 



"That's it for the meeting. It's free time till the end of school!" 
Haruhi sat back down into the chair and started typing again. 


Just when the last bell that seems to be shooing out all those who don't want to leave yet out of 
the school started to ring, Nagato closed her book. Just like someone who can tell the time by 
listening to the cries of cicadas, we took it as an accurate sign and prepared to go home. 

We waited for Asahina-san to get changed and left the club room. The sun is setting already, the 
wind is a little chilly. 

It's natural for a significant gap to form between guys and girls when we are going down the 
slope. Haruhi and Asahina-san walked right at the front with Nagato trailing behind them 
silently. 

Me and Koizumi walked together a couple meters behind the three girls. Since this is a rare 
chance, I'll ask him about that now. 

"How is it?" 

"Today's the same as yesterday, nothing has changed at all." 

Koizumi answered me with his usual smile. 

"Maybe I've been looking too much into this. Nagato-san and Asahina-san didn't seem to have 
any special reaction to Sasaki-san either. I just hope this type of Closed space is just a one time 
thing." 

It's already been quite a few days since the new year has started, Nagato and Asahina-san haven't 
even mentioned my old classmate once. But this is only natural after all, since I'll go crazy if I 
have to take precautionary measures every time if i want to talk to an old friend. 

"You don't need to do that, as long as that person isn't Sasaki-san. It'll only be a problem if it's 
her." 

She's just someone who's a little eccentric. Plus, we ran into each other by coincidence. 

"I can raise both of my hands in agreement. That's what I believe too. It's a fact that's already 
clear to us, no further explanation needed. What I'm worried about is the one who 
misunderstood, and those who're deliberately using this misunderstanding." 

"What do you mean by that?" 


I don't think Kunikida or Nakagawa have any use for that at all. 



Those two friends of your's should be ok, but- 


Koizumi took off his bag from his shoulder and shrugged. 

"Never mind, let's just forget about that. I just hope it's a bad hunch. Oh, you don't need to worry 
about Sasaki-san. The "Organization" would never do anything to endanger her safety, there's no 
reason to." 

Isn't that obvious? What the heck are you trying to say? 

"I'm sorry. I was just trying to eliminate your worries, but it seems like that was unnecessary." 

Koizumi turned his head back to the front, with a melancholic smile on his face. If some junior 
girl were to see that look, she'll probably turn to mush. I followed him and turned my eyes back 
to the front and saw the back of Nagato's head, Haruhi and Asahina-san are walking in front of 
her while talking cheerfully. 

And so, we followed our normal routine and went our separate ways at Koyoen station. 

"I'll see you guys tomorrow." 

Haruhi gave me a look that said "Can't you come early for once?" and left first, with her skirt and 
ribbon fluttering in the wind. Asahina-san waved goodbye and followed our brigade leader. 

When I turned back to look for Nagato, I could see her small figure far away in the direction of 
her apartment. 

"I hope nothing happens tomorrow." 

Koizumi said that in a monologue tone. That's what I thought too... 


But Koizumi was too naive, and so was I. 


The situation is still advancing steadily, it's just that no one has noticed it. But the fact is that it 
already started a long time ago. It's dragging everybody in one by one, starting from me. It's not 
just the SOS brigade either, Kunikida, Taniguchi, Nakagawa, Sasaki, and those who I know and 
don't are all being dragged into it. 

I still need some time for me to realize what is really going on. Tomorrow? No way it's that fast. 
But you can say that something close to an omen happened on that day. 



Was it just a coincidence, or was it a fated encounter? Maybe it was a part of someone's plan.... 


The next day, that Saturday's morning at 9am. I met two of my former acquaintances and was 
introduced to someone who I have never seen before in front of the station. I was also being told 
that someone else I know is lurking just around the corner... 


That day, I was somehow able to wake up earlier than my sister who uses the alarm clock every 
day. I followed my new daily routine of pushing the sleeping Shamisen off my pillow, and got 
up myself. 

My body felt refreshed, it's a feeling that I haven't had for a long time for a holiday's morning. 
My feet and hands seem to be lighter too. Seems like not relying on an alarm or my sister to 
wake up in the morning would be the key to living a long life. 

I sneaked out of my bedroom and ate a breakfast that was devoid of my sister's usual ruckus, got 
changed and started to ride my bike towards the station. It sure is early, it's just a little past 8am. 

I may be able to arrive before Haruhi if I keep this up. Maybe Koizumi would purposely be the 
last one to arrive and save me the trouble. It's not too bad for Haruhi to cover the cost for a 
change, but compared to the measly change in a high school student's wallet, that "Organization" 
must have amassed plenty of funds. So Koizumi's pay should be pretty good. 

Just when I was riding along the road in an elated mood, the pink petals that carpeted the road 
caught my attention. Looks like it'll only take one more night of rain and it'll be the end of this 
year's cherry blossom season. 

I got off my bike near the station and looked around. I got the feeling that Sasaki would pop out 
of nowhere. But it's only natural for that self-proclaimed old close friend of mine to be nowhere 
to be seen. I let out a sigh of relief. Koizumi, it doesn't really make a difference to me, but it 
seems like you don't need to be worried about it anymore. 

I looked at my watch, it was still more than 30 minutes before 9am. I really did come early 
today. 

I hummed while I parked my bike in a pay parking space, then walked leisurely towards the 
meeting spot and discovered that no one was there yet. 

But there was no time for me to form a satisfied smile. On the contrary, even the sunlight filled 
morning seemed to have gotten darker. 

"Hey, Kyon-" 

Sasaki greeted me with the smile of someone who has successfully surprised another. 



"We meet again. This really makes me happy. Maybe it's different for you, but I really hoped 
something like this would happen. Although rather than happy, I'm actually more intrigued by 
it." 


I stood there like a piece of rotten wood, unable to say anything. 

Sasaki wasn't alone either, she was accompanied by two other girls. And one of them was 
someone who had a face that I would never forget. It belongs to someone who's on my top 
wanted list. It's all thanks to the extra self-control I gained in the last year, that I haven't pounced 
on top of her and proceeded to beat the daylight out of her. 

"You !" 

"Hello." 

She nodded towards me and smiled. 

"Long time, no see. How is your time traveler, Asahina-san, doing? Huhum. You don't need to 
look at me like that. We have already withdrawn from such activities." 

The month before, those incidents that happened around mid-february started to come back to 
me. 


The Asahina-san from 8 days later, who I named Michiru at that time. We followed the hints of 
Asahina-san(Big) and solved many problems. The prank with the can and nail, the boulder at 
Mt.Tsuruya, turtle and the boy. Plus that mysterious memory chip and that other detestable time 
traveler 

And the Asahina-san kidnapping incident. 

After a series of car chases, the one who appeared with that new time traveler as one of the 
criminals, was now standing in front of me. She acted like she was the head of the operation and 
was also the sole female member. She even kept a calm face against Mori-san's terrifying smile. 

That girl is now standing beside Sasaki, right in front of my eyes. 

I have no idea if Sasaki knows what’s going on between me and that kidnapper, but she slowly 
raised her hand in a attempt to cut in and said: 

"Allow me to introduce her, Kyon. This is Tachibana Kyouko-san. She's Well, you can call 

her an acquaintance of mine. We only got to know each other recently, our relationship hasn't 
progressed far enough for us to call each other friends. But I'm very interested in the things that 
Tachibana-san has told me." 


Sasaki cleared her throat and continued: 



"Judging from that look on your face, I'd say the you two have already met. Seems like the 
encounter was a bad one too. Although that was what I expected." 

"Sasaki " 

I said that in an oldmanish tone. 

"You shouldn't associate yourself with her. She's " 

-Our enemy. 

"It looks that way." 

Sasaki didn't seem to mind at all. 

"But it doesn't seem like she's an enemy of mine. That's what's interesting. She's told me some 
incredible things too. Although it's hard for me to understand, it's something that feels refreshing 
to think about. Kinda like mental aerobics. I may not be able to understand it as a whole, but I'm 
aware of what is going on." 

Tachibana Kyouko, the kidnapper's lips curled into a smile. 

"That won't do, Sasaki-san. I was hoping that you'd understand the situation, otherwise-" 

She looked at me with the begging eyes of a puppy in a pet shop waiting for an owner- 

"He would never listen to what I have to say. You wouldn't listen to what I have to say for more 
than 3 seconds, right?" 

Right. That is correct to the extreme degree. Anyone who kidnaps Asahina-san should be sent to 
trial without a lawyer. Why isn't Koizumi here yet? What about Mori-san and Arakawa-san, or 
the Tamaru brothers? 

"Kyon, are you listening?" 

Wait a second, Sasaki. I'm looking for someone I can trust right now. 

"I'm sorry, but there's someone else here that I have to introduce to you. Can you please let me 
go first?" 

Who? You can forget about it if it's that future bastard with attitude problem. 

"Although I can guess who you are talking about, you can relax. Since it's not him." 

Sasaki raised her hand and pointed to the opposite side of Tachibana Kyouko. 



"She told me that she wishes to coexist with you within a radius of 2 meters, so I suppose it's not 
that bad to introduce you to her. Since it could be troublesome for you if we just let her be. 
She's.... I guess she's someone I know rather than a total stranger." 

I looked towards the direction of Sasaki's hand. 

At first I couldn't comprehend what I was looking at. 

Something that looked like a drop of black ink inside a glass of water, hazy and fog like is 

what I saw. It took me quite a few seconds before I realized that I was looking at a Youkoen girls 
school's uniform. 

At the same time that I realized what I was looking at, that girl gave me a feeling that she's been 
there for more than a hundred years. Just what is this feeling? 

This would be the first time I have met someone that I can accurately describe using that ancient 
phrase "Out of this world". 

"Huh ?" 

It's our first meeting for sure. There's no way that anyone could forget a girl like that if they 
happened to lay their eyes on her. 

But why is it that I can feel a chilling sensation like something from snowy mountains in the 
winter? I feel like I have experienced something similar before 

She slowly raised her head, and I got goosebumps all over me the instant I saw her face and that 
expression. She must be a ghost, definitely not human. It's impossible for it to be a human. 


That girl, with a face that's paler than Nagato's, has an indescribable black glass like eyes, with 
hair that's dark like a crow sprayed with a can of dark tainting spray. Her hair extended below 
her waist, with strange wave-like curls. It resembled a big and heavy mop. Her hair spreads and 
extends onto both the left and right sides, you can say that it covers the majority of the surface 
areas. It really stands out, it's so strange that I wouldn't be surprised if she suddenly grew a pair 
of wings and flew away. Although it's impossible to overlook someone like that, why is that I 
didn't notice her until Sasaki introduced her? Isn't that abnormal? Was she invisible before? 

I quickly checked my surroundings. The pedestrians only made a passing glance at Sasaki or 
Tachibana Kyouko occasionally, but no one seemed to notice her existence. 


Who are you? 



She just stood there without making a sound, she doesn't even blink. She looked straight at me, 
with a look like she's trying to find a specific pigeon out of the flock that's in front of a shrine. It 
feels more mechanical than any machine, even the lens of the cheapest camera would look more 
alive than her eyes. 


That expressionless face somewhat resembles Nagato's, but it's a completely different type. The 
manufacturer and maker are completely different. If Nagato is a piece of ice out in the 
wilderness, this girl would be dry ice. She won't even melt, she would just evaporate into 
nothing. 

The pale lips seem to have moved out of obligation. 

Ah...." 

To my surprise, those heavy lips spit out human speech instead of white smoke. But it moved 
very slowly, after a while it started to say some things I never expected. 

"My mission_ to observe This is a place_ where time.... moves 

slowly. Temperature very humid." 

That voice sounded extremely drowsily it's almost deathly. The color of that tone is comparable 
to those old monotone films that are full of sepia flakes by now. 

She moved her gaze away from me. 

This time no mistake.... you.... will 

I can't understand anything she said. This situation seems to have overlapped with my memories. 
But what's this similar yet different deja vu like feeling? 

I'm " 

She continued slowly. 

"Kuyoh " 

Just when I wanted to ask how to spell that. 

"Suou 

"Ah?" 


So it's Kuoh Suyo? 



Suou Kuyoh 


What? Which is it? Is her head short of at least 5 gears or something? 

The sound of Sasaki's light giggle brought me back to reality. 

"Kyon, she has always been like that. Isn't she interesting? I just call her Kuyoh-san. What she 
lacks isn't gears, but a solid definition of individual. No no, it's not an illness. That's just how she 
is. I can't think of any other ways to explain it." 

But this Kuyoh woman's ability to communicate is far worse than the Nagato I met for the first 
time Eh? Nagato? 

- Don't tell me, they are somewhere close? 

- It's possible. 

The SOS Brigade's group lodging of the winter holidays. The snow storm at the ski resort. The 
hotel that appeared like a mirage. 

Nagato fainted in that place because of fever. We were able to escape that place with the help of 
a hint that Nagato left us combined with Haruhi's intuition and Koizumi's knowledge. It feels like 
a daydream to me now. 

An alien life form that's different from the Integrated Data Sentient Entity- The Macrospatial 
Quantum Cosmic Existence. 

"So that's it..." 

I stared at her like I was trying to carve her face into my brain cells. 

"So it's you. The alien that's different from Nagato." 

Ali.... en ? What’s. that ?" 

"Drop the act!" 

It's easy to see what is going on even for me. Tachibana Kyouko the kidnapper is the opposition 
of Koizumi and the "Organization". That future bastard would be Asahina-san's opponent. The 
answer is clear if you use the elimination method. Nagato's opponent would be her, Suou Kuyoh. 
I almost said that out aloud. 

I remembered what Koizumi told me on the way back from Tsuruya estate. 

- Lets use this example. Let's say there a kingdom called A and another one called B - There's 
also C the opposition force against A and D the opposition of B - If C and D become allies -... 



So it's finally here. If Nagato's IDSE would be F, then she would be part of G's first wave. 


She looked at me, with a look like she was looking at the carvings on a copper clock- 
" Your " 


Kuyoh talked in a voice that's like an old and off tone tape: 

"Eyes very pretty." 

And spat out that perfectly meaningless line. 

In conclusion. 

She is a interface that's cruder than Nagato, Kimidori-san or Asakura Ryoko. It's pointless for me 
to try and ask her origin, which is meaningless anyway. I have no intention of getting along with 
her to begin with. 

"Kyon, I knew you would say something like that." 

Sasaki held her stomach in a attempt to stop herself from laughing and said: 

"All I have is these two. Because no one else would get close to me. Does North High have a lot 
interesting people like Kuyoh-san? It would be great if that's the case, but it's a pity that I'm not a 
student of North High. No matter how much I complain about it, I still have to stay there for 2 
more years. I must play to my heart's content when I get into the university I'm aiming for. That's 
what I have planned." 

"Sasaki-" I said to my old friend. "Do you know what they are?" 

"They told me. So I know. It really is something that's unbelievable. If you had asked me if I 
believe it or not before, I wouldn't have a clue on how to answer you." 

The laughing eyes of Sasaki's that are looking at me have now narrowed into an irregular line. 
"But I know now after that reaction of yours. They are the real deal." 

She cast her gaze towards Kuyoh and Tachibana Kyouko. 

"A humanoid android made by aliens, an esper with limited powers, and a time traveler right? 
Although it's hard to take in those 3 cards all at once, but I'm starting to believe it now." 

Stop mixing around with them, Sasaki. It's for the best to not get involved with those things. 
You'll just turn into another me. Damn it. Leaving that monster Kuyoh aside, I'd probably act 
differently if this was the first meeting between Tachibana Kyouko and I. But because we have 
already met each other in a bad situation before, I just can't soften up my attitude towards her. 



Even if I try to sway Sasaki now, it would be useless against someone who's clear-headed and 
sharp-eyed like her. 

The leader of those criminals, Tachibana Kyouko, now has a warm and harmless smile on her 
face that's impossible for anyone to think of her as a criminal. Was what she did in February just 
an act for this moment? If that's so, then it must be the same for that future bastard too. Where is 
he? 

Just when I was looking around suspiciously, Tachibana Kyouko said: 

"He said something about not wanting to do stupid things like this. He should be somewhere. But 
it seems that he won't be showing up today." 

She pronounced the word "today" differently, relaying that bastard's message. 

I don't want to see him either. If possible, I don't want to meet those two mysterious girls in front 
of me too. 

"It can't be helped, since no matter how much we delay it, it will happen someday. Besides, we 
have waited for a long time already, isn't it about time for us to show up now?" 

Tachibana Kyouko closed her mouth and giggled, 

"He must be thinking about the same thing too. Something that's meant to be will be. No matter 
how much you delay it, there's always something that you can't get away with. Wouldn't the 
wound be lighter if you get it over with quickly?" 

She stressed the pronunciation of the word "he" this time, I thought she was talking about the 
future guy. But I was wrong. 

Tachibana Kyouko looked behind me, her gaze passed through me like I was invisible. A 
chilling sensation instantly ran up my spine. I sometimes thought that the expressions like 
chilling or fear are used often, although the true meaning or feeling that it represents are rarely 
felt. It's like a drawing of a mouchi or kamo carrying a leek. 

Everything has been blown away. There is no mistake. This is it. My heart is now filled with a 
chilling fear that's impossible for me to describe. 

I turned around slowly. 

Koizumi is standing behind me. He probably got here from the station's ticket booth. He's 
dressed in a casual but faultless outfit with his hands tucked in his pockets, standing there 
nonchalantly like he's been waiting for me to notice him. 


It would have been good if it's just Koizumi. Since he's the only one I can count on in North 
High to debate with those three. 



"Uuu " Another bead of sweat dropped down from my forehead. 

It's the worst case scenario imaginable. Haruhi, the absolute person in power of SOS Brigade, is 
standing beside Koizumi. She's staring at me with the look of a government official who's 
witnessing the wrong doings of a local magistrate, with Nagato and Asahina-san behind her. 

That is to say, the entire SOS Brigade is now present at the meeting point. Furthermore, they 
seemed to have formed a human wall that's used to block free kicks to block out me and Sasaki. 

I looked at my watch and found that there's still 15 more minutes before 9am. I have no idea 
when they arrived, even though I'm technically not the last one to arrive, it still looks that way 
with all the others already standing there. 

But now is not the time to be pondering over something so trivial. 

Haruhi has now locked her gaze onto mine and is now stomping towards my way. The other 
three followed like maids following a princess. Koizumi who always tirelessly dressed 
faultlessly for every occasion, Nagato who's always wearing a uniform with no explanation, and 
Asahina-san who's wearing a fancy spring outfit. 

I felt like an air traffic controller who has seen an ultra-low atmospheric pressure that's 
accompanied by an enormous sea of cloud on my radar screen. 

Haruhi stopped in front of me, with a look like those drug sniffing dogs at the airport who have 
caught the scent of marijuana. 

"I thought it's a rare occasion for you to come before us. What? You have another appointment 
before ours?" 

"We just ran into each other." 

Sasaki answered. She didn't look at Haruhi, her eyes were on me. 

"Seems like if you live near here, it would be natural to choose this place as a meeting point. I 
have promised to meet my acquaintances here. Kyon, just like you, I too make new friends at 
places you don't know. Since those that I've been waiting for have arrived, it's time for us to get 
going." 

That's great. I'm sorry, but please hurry up and be on your way. But please don't go into the 
coffee house that's nearby, since that's where we are going. It would be troublesome if there were 
no seats left. 

"Ok, I'll think about it. It would be awkward to meet up again just after we have parted. We'll 
take the train and go somewhere away from here." 


Sasaki answered after understanding my intentions, then bowed toward Haruhi. 



"Suzumiya-san, I'll leave Kyon to you. He still doesn't put any effort in studying and extra- 
curricular activities even in high school, right? Unless he gets back on track before his mother's 
patience runs out, he'll be forced to go to cram schools like in junior high. I think she should 
reach her limit around the upcoming summer vacation." 

"Eh. Ah. En." 

Haruhi squeezed out some random sounds in order to evade not being able to say anything. Her 
eyes were wide open like a kid who discovered a bug he had never seen before in the mountains. 

If this is all part of someone's plan to shake me up, then those two really are more than enough. 
But no, I realize that there really is more on top of everything. 

It's normal to see high school students stand in front of a busy station on holidays, it's something 
that you see all the time. 

But, on a certain corner of this street, something huge has collided. Although it seems to have 
made no sound at all - but I think I have heard something that should not be audible. 

At the same time as Sasaki was smiling at Haruhi, Tachibana Kyouko and Kuyoh were looking 
in different directions. The image of our stylish vice commander from head to toe has appeared 
in Tachibana Kyouko's eyes. 

They did not talk at all. Itsuki's smiling pokerface did not change one bit. Even though he is 
radiating an air of annoyance, it seems I'm the only one who noticed. 

On the other hand, Tachibana Kyouko has a satisfied smile like a female actress being on stage 
for the first time. 

But those two are not the source of that sound. Such a shockwave can't be produced by two 
human beings facing off. 

It's something that's causing me to lose my mental footing, like the continent plate and the 
oceanic plate are colliding far underground. And the source of that sound is- 


Those two that are staring at each other without moving are Nagato and Kuyoh. 

I remember now, that's right, I have seen Nagato get really angry a couple times already. Like the 
time when we were having a game showdown with the computer research group or when the 
student President tried to suspend the Literature Club. At the time when she was fighting 



Asakura I didn't have the extra attention to see her expressions, it's also possible she didn't have 
that emotion back then. 

But now, I have finally understood. 

This ability to read Nagato's emotional changes that I'm so confident in, was still middle-class 
level. 

That expressionless Nagato's steely firm and expressionless eyes were now radiating an 
emptiness that could pulverize your spine. In her transparent like pupils, is the image of the 
different alien-made android that calls herself Kuyoh. 

The noisy surroundings and the passing pedestrians all seem to be far away from here. It 
wouldn't feel weird even if a giant mantis broke the ground and climbed out. 

This loss of reality feels just like being trapped in a different dimension- 

"Ah, uhmm " 

The one who dispelled me from that is a fairy who has come down from the heavens, the one 
who is also the support of my optic and protectiveness nerve- 

"Kyon-kun? What happened? You don't look so good...." 

Asahina-san looked up at me with a worried look. 

"Did you catch a cold? Ah. You are sweating. Handkerchief, handkerchief." 

She reached into her pouch, took out a flowery handkerchief and handed it to me. 

I snapped out of my trance thanks to that. 

"I'm ok, Asahina-san." 

I don't want to dirty your pretty handkerchief. My shirt sleeve is enough for the job. 

That future bastard has my temporary gratitude. Because he isn't here, Asahina-san doesn't need 
to glare at someone else like Koizumi and Nagato. 

I wiped my sweat, while suppressing the feeling like a reporter being pushed onto a live 
broadcast of a presidential election support speech without a script. 

"Kyon, I'll be going now." 

Sasaki who was talking with Haruhi said. 




She reached into her pouch, took out a flowery handkerchief and handed it to me. 

"I almost forgot, can you call Sudou when you have time? Looks like he's officially preparing for 
the gathering. He called me again a while ago, seems he wants to put you in charge of informing 
the North High region." 

Why did he tell you that instead of me? Maybe Sudou's really interested in Sasaki instead of 
Okamoto. 

"That's impossible." 

Sasaki said that without thinking. 

"I never did anything that may have made anyone like me. I never showed affection to anyone 
either. You are probably the one who understands that the most, right Kyon?" 


Nope, I got no idea. 



Is that so?" Sasaki giggled, "Then that's ok. 


Sasaki raised her hand after saying that puzzling line. 

"See you later." 

She walked past me and continued towards the ticket booth, Tachibana Kyouko and Kuyoh 
started to move silently too. The former had a look of someone who has just finished all of their 
tasks and the latter was like a dark cloud that's slowly drifting away. 

Koizumi and Nagato acted like they were meditating and didn't say anything at all, only 
Asahina-san bowed nervously. You really are someone who can put people at ease regardless of 
the location. You are so lovely that it's making me dizzy! I love you Asahina-san, I want to hold 
you close in my arms ! 

After seeing the three disappearing into the station, Haruhi murmured: 

"She really is a queer character. Hmmm, but she is one of the more interesting people you know. 
Although she feels a bit artificial." 

She would probably take what you said as a compliment, Sasaki's like that. 

"I thought as much, she seems to have more friends than you too." 

It's true that she is considerably more sociable than me. But, Sasaki- 
I held back my sighs, and thought: 

You don't need to go and befriend aliens, time travelers and espers. Even if you want to expand 
your social zone, there's still limits. 

I probably shouldn't be thinking about it. My head isn't working properly right now. 

Tachibana Kyouko's opponent is Koizumi. For Suou Kuyoh it would be Nagato, the nameless 
future guy would be against Asahina-san 

Then what about Sasaki? I had completely forgot about her. 

I had never thought about who she would be going against. 


Several minutes later after parting with Sasaki and the two extras, we went to the coffee house 
like fulfilling some sort of obligation. That would be listening to Haruhi's rant about what she 
had planned for today. 



I shouldn't be treating everybody this time. It's the second time that I'm the first one to arrive, it's 
something I should be celebrating about, but I'm not happy at all. Maybe it's because it didn't feel 
like I was waiting for anyone till now. I still can't forget about the day that I was waiting for 
Haruhi by myself when Koizumi, Nagato and Asahina-san were absent. Even though I still paid 
for her, it's still memorable. 

"We met at the ticket booth this time right?" 

Haruhi continued while drinking her American Ice Cream Float noisily: 

"Therefore no one is late. You just arrived first. Therefore we'll just pay for our own things this 
time." 

What's with that "Therefore"? You even used it twice. It makes you sound stupid by repeating 
the same conjunction twice, and don't go changing the rules either. Maybe next time I'll come 
here while doing the Oklahoma Mixer [It's kinda like a part of the PE program in japanese Junior 
High although I don't think they do it anymore] dance with Nagato and Asahina-san. 

"That’s a no go." 

Haruhi shook her straw with her mouth. 

"You can't plan it before hand and pretend it's a coincidence. I'll say this now, I'm not that easily 
fooled. You'll have to pay the ten times fine if you get caught." 

Who's going to investigate that? You won't get caught if you make sure to say the same thing 
anyway. Haruhi's probably on top of the Fair Trade Commission's list. But let's forget about it, 
since one will have to pay the ten times fine in a fixed period and need a loan from the bank. 

"About today's activities-" 

Haruhi finished her cold drink and looked around at every one, I did the same and looked at the 
other three. 

Asahina-san held her glass of ceylon tea elegantly with both hands and listened to Haruhi's 
words enthusiastically, Nagato stared at the surface of her apricot water and Koizumi had his 
usual smile with his arms crossed. 

In regard to the appearance, there is no change to the SOS Brigade members. Ignoring Nagato, 
Koizumi's unwavering business like smile is really praise worthy. I'll make sure to mention that 
when I talk to those two later. 

The following scene would be us drawing lots to decide the groups, is what I thought. 

"I've decided to not split into groups." 



Is what she said. 


"I thought about it before, maybe we can't find anything because we tend to divide into two 
groups of two and three. After all, it is easier to discover something when there's more people 
searching one spot. Five is over two times more than two." 

Haruhi give me an interrogatory look: 

"Especially you, Kyon, you weren't looking for those mysterious things seriously, right? You 
were asleep in the library before." 

So you still remember that. I looked at Nagato and Asahina-san from the corner of my eyes, they 
seemed a bit uncomfortable. 

"Hey, Haruhi, what are those mysterious things again? Sorry, but I forgot most of those things 
you said before. Can you tell me about those again?" 

"That's the basic of the basics, so make sure you remember them this time." 

Haruhi brushed some hair away from her cheek. 

"Any incomprehensible occurrence is ok. Something that can't be explained or someone who's 
mysterious, temporal disturbances, aliens pretending to be human, and many other similar 
things." 

Most of what you just said can be explained by these guys here — I thought that to myself and 
sighed. 

I'll have to have a good talk with Koizumi and Nagato in another time. It's too risky to try to talk 
with those two without Haruhi noticing if we are moving around as one group. 

From Koizumi and Nagato's complexion, and the fact that Asahina-san is still the normal 
Asahina-san, plus there isn't another me that has come back from the future trying to fix things, it 
seems things shouldn't be that bad. 

Besides, there's something that's more important right now. I peeked at Haruhi. 

Looks like she's really concentrating on finding those mysterious things. It's all right then if that's 
the case. There's no need to reassure myself or panic. 

Our raison d’etre-less SOS Brigade has already sailed through many storms, it's now completely 
out of control and roaming around randomly. As long as the course is still unclear, it'll just 
continue to ignore the marine traffic safety code and run all over the place. It's not unlikely that a 
voyage which started by aiming for an Indian subcontinent would end on the top of Mt. Ararat. 



Sensing that Haruhi was going to get up soon, I hurriedly gulped down the remaining melted ice 
in my glass. 


"Ok, let's go!" 

Just as Haruhi was pushing the receipt towards me out of habit, she seemed to suddenly 
remember the declaration she made before and acted nonchalantly while picking up the straw in 
her empty glass with her mouth. 

We walked around near the station for several hours after that. 

Some of the buildings that weren't here a month ago seemed to have appeared out of nowhere 
just a bit off the main street, there are also some buildings that seemed to have evaporated into 
thin air. Although all of this seems a bit fast, maybe it's normal in today's commercialism- 
infested community. Has the bar near my house that existed before my birth been left behind by 
time too? The convenience stores that seem to have just opened suddenly close shop, and more 
take their place, just like Russian roulette. Although that's a scene that one should already be 
familiar with, you would still feel strangely at ease if the scenery hadn't changed at all. 

The thing I'm most thankful about is that we didn't meet up with Sasaki's group again. Although 
I'm prepared for them to pop out from a corner, it seems that they really did get on a train and 
have gone somewhere else. I'm still not very happy about the fact that she brought the other two 
here, but it seems that she is still considerate of others. I'll have to thank her for that. 

The five of us moved around together for the whole day. We had lunch at a curry restaurant with 
unique dishes that the owner is proud of, looks like he opened the restaurant as a hobby. We did 
the same activities in the afternoon. I feel like we three are just accompanying Haruhi and 
Asahina-san for window shopping, it's probably the same from other people's perspective. 

Asahina-san who's looking at the miscellaneous goods corner of a fancy shop with sparkles in 
her eyes, Haruhi trying out various sunglasses on Nagato in front of a optometrico shop, 

Koizumi who's been making small talk with topics like the weather or his classmates- 

Today passed so ordinarily, it’s somewhat strange. 

Aah, it was a enjoyable day. There's nothing to complain about. 

On that night. 

After the new year's first mystery search tour ended without finding any mysterious 
phenomenon, I hurried home as soon as Haruhi signaled the end for today. I ate dinner and went 
idle for a while, then went into the bath after my sister. 

I washed my hair with a shampoo that's cheaper than the ones for cats, and went into the bath tub 
after washing off all the dirt and dust, just when I was humming the tone of my sister's self- 
composed song that's known as "Dinner time song", the bathroom door suddenly opened. 



"Kyon-kun -Phone 

My sister who's already in her pajamas poked her head in. 

So I got a call. I thought I would get a call anyway. I have some business too. I'm prepared to 
have a talk with Koizumi or Nagato. My sister held the receiver with a big smile on her face. 

" 'Is Onii-san home?', I answered 'Kyon-kun is.' " 

Can't you call me using the former too? 

"Who is it?" 

"It’s a girl-" 

My sister said that in a weird tone, I wiped my hands on the towel I placed on my head and took 
the receiver from her. 

"Ah, Kyon-kun, you have to help me with my homework after you get out of the bath. Arith- 
matic- drill— nn— " 


After she finished that toneless song, she poked out her tongue at me and skipped out of the 
changing room like a kindergartener. 

A girl who would call me at this time? 

Who else but Haruhi? Maybe it's Nagato because of what happened this morning? Could it be 

Asahina-san? don't tell me it's the (big) one. I'm not in the mood to listen to some strange 

advice right now. 

"Hello." 

To prevent accidentally dropping the phone in the bathtub, I put my head out over the edge and 
placed the receiver to my ear. 

"Hello." 


And that echo-like voice is- 



Chapter 2 

a - 1 


"Hello." 

The voice echoing from the other side is a female voice that I had not heard before. 

It isn't Haruhi, it isn't Nagato, not Asahina-san from any time plane, not Mori-san, not Sakanaka, 
much less Tachibana Kyoko or Suou Kuyoh, or the one with a little possibility, Sasaki. One can 
know it after hearing the first sentence. The voice does not come from anyone I know of, a voice 
that has never entered my eardrums before. 

"Ah, are you bathing? Sorry! I am too impolite. Why don't I call back later?" 

That isn't necessary. However, just before I could say that... 

"But, but, if I call too many times it will be very... I'm really sorry." 

After continuously hearing that incessant voice come through the headset, I stopped her. 

"Who is this?" 

"Its me. Me, just me~" 

No, you are not Haruhi, and so that is not considered a formal introduction. 

"How is it possible you don't remember..." 

The female voice said. Since it's coming from the phone, it's not very clear. The owner of the 
voice spoke in a jovial high pitch. 

"But it is alright. I am only planning to say hi to you. Your younger sister is so cute! I want a 
sister just like her! Arithmetic drills- Hehe, so cute." 

Eh? I haven't heard this voice before, but her tone and style of speaking seems very similar to 
someone else's. But no matter how hard I search in the recording stores of my brain. I'm still 
unable to find it. I only felt that it is a voice with a childish tone sounding like that of my 
younger sister. 

"I only wanted to hear Senpai's voice." 

The owner of the voice said. 

"It is only this, there are no other special purposes. If there is a need to trouble you next time, 
please take good care of me. If only we could be together for a longer time." 



Wait, did this person call me a Senpai? Meaning younger than me? But, the voice indeed does 
not exist in my memory. Just when I wanted to tell her to "at least give me her full name" 

"I am going to hang up. So chat again soon. If there is a chance, hehe." 

Click. 

The opposite party hung up in a rather impolite manner. 

What exactly is this? Just a newly-reunited old friend Sasaki, Tachibana Kyoko and Kuyoh is 
enough to bug me, I do not wish to see more new characters appearing in this time frame. 

I suddenly had a stroke of inspiration and took a look at the call lists, only to find out that the 
other party had used a private number. 

All the way till the time I finished bathing and put on my pajamas, I continued to question 
myself on who exactly is the girl who called, and the end result is a waste of time. 

"What exactly is wrong with today ?" 

But I guess no matter what I think is useless, I should just go with the flow. If it doesn't work, no 
matter what, I will make sure it does. If there are any surprises, I will discuss it with Koizumi, 

Asahina-san, Nagato and an infinitely long distance to Haruhi, in order from easiest to 

hardest. Till then, I could ignore whatever that happens. 

"How troublesome." 

Tomorrow is a full day of rest, something that is extremely hard to come by, as long as Haruhi 
doesn't come up with any strange ideas before I sleep, Sunday is going to be relaxing. 

To prevent myself from catching a cold after a bath, I hugged Shamisen like a heat bag and 
walked towards my younger sister's room. 


P-1 


"Hello." 

The voice echoing from the other side is a female voice that I had just heard this morning. 


If it was Haruhi, Nagato or Asahina-san (big), it would still be alright. Haruhi would at most be 
telling us what naive plans will be carried out tomorrow. If it was Nagato, I would have to 



discuss with her the measures that can be taken to deal with Kuyoh. For Asahina-san (big), I still 
have many, many things to ask her about. 


"Ah? Are you bathing? Your younger sister should have told me. Why don't I call you back 
later? But since you already answered the call, according to my predictions, you should be done 
and coming out soon, right?" 

It was not anyone I had imagined. I said the name of the owner of the familiar voice. 

"Is this Sasaki?" 



The voice echoing from the other side is a female voice that I had just heard this morning. 

"Yes, it's me. As for today's incident, I originally wanted to talk to you for a longer time, but 
Suzumiya-san arrived a bit too early. I am afraid this is a miscalculation on my part." 

Sasaki laughed in her cluck-cluck voice. 


"But your younger sister hasn't changed one bit. I'd already told her my name, don't know if she 

didn't hear it or if she forgot about me already but I guess it cannot be helped, we have only 

met twice no, thrice. 

"If you wanted to be my younger sister's tuition teacher, I think you had better not." 

This is one of my rare contributions to the family. 

"I understand. How would I snatch your cute younger sister away? While there are billions of 
people who don't know each other at all, those whom one is related to in blood are only the few 
members in the family. This causes the ratio on the difference on both sides to increase. This is 
one of those things in the world that must be viewed seriously; as they say, blood is thicker than 
water." 

"So, what is it?" 

"I will be direct then. Nine in the morning tomorrow. Hope you can come to the old place in 
front of the train station. You know the place right? I guess you should, even if I mentioned only 

the old place part. As for what is going to happen well, actually it isn’t me looking for you, 

and I guess it is time to listen to Tachibana-san directly. According to my considerations, I think 
you will understand this better than me." 

"Those fellows are coming, aren't they?" 

I felt very irritated the moment I remembered the quiet and alienate Kuyoh. 

"He should be coming as well. He is called... well, that self-proclaimed time traveler guy." 

This made me feel worse. If that idiot talks some rubbish about Asahina-san again, I have no 
confidence that I can control myself this time around. If I lose control and end up beating that 
guy up, you shall be the one to stop me. 

"So you are saying that you will be coming? Kyon, don't worry. Those three hope to come to 
terms without coming to blows. If we can exchange our opinions by just talking, no matter who 
it is, it would be better that way." 

Let's hope that alien understands Earth language. Speaking of that 

"Sasaki, where did you go with them today?" 

"You wanted evidence to prove that I am not there? We took the train to the city and walked for 
a few rounds. Tachibana-san is really nice to hang out with. She even talked a lot about her high 
school." 


Sasaki calmly added. 



And, about the incident four years ago. 


Four years ago. 

Because when I first heard about this was last year, and back then it was already three years ago. 
This is a keyword that everyone often talked about and caused them to shake their heads. That is 
when Haruhi used some sadistic superpowers to cause something major to happen till now. We 
can now hold Olympics. 

"What did she say?" 

"You should ask her about this directly. I am still very confused now. Oh yes, Kyon, actually I 
am very unsettled now. It is like I am going to attend a swimming lesson tomorrow and yet not 
knowing how to swim, like an elementary school child." 

I remembered my middle school days when Sasaki stood and waited beside the pool. This person 
is indeed a girl. When she is mingling with other girls from the class, she seems like a normal 
girl. The only thing out of the ordinary would be her above average communication skills and 
her shining eyes when she is talking. Indeed, other than when talking to males, she is a common 
middle school, and now a high school, student. 

It had always been like that, but why must Sasaki call me and discuss such strange topics? This 
is indeed something not common at all. Must be a mistake somewhere. Whose fault is it? 

"Sasaki, I know that you are now the messenger of that group. But, I really don't understand, why 
must you do something like this?" 

Sasaki, on the other side of the line, remained silent for a while before breaking into a laughter of 
deep thought. 

"This is because I am your good friend, more than the others. If someone asked you out, you 
wouldn't be so obedient would you, after all you are not one who is so easily tricked, although 
you are quite easily defeated in a debate of words." 

I had never thought of defeating you in a debate of words. 

"You indeed have the qualities of a listener, with the right amount of intelligence, as well as that 
of innocence. Don't get angry, but reporting something you know the other party already knows 
is kind of meaningless. But for this, if the other party is Kyon, then there is nothing to worry 
about. You give others such a feeling, a feeling of being able to talk to you freely." 

I kept having a feeling that it doesn't seem like you praising me, but since it came out from the 
mouth of Sasaki, it would be instantly understandable. Speaking of this, it had always been this 
way since the beginning. 



"If I don't want to interfere with your younger sister's studying I should hang up now. I also do 
not want you to lose your opportunity to wield the power of a senior. Make sure you wake up 
punctually tomorrow or I would've wasted my time flipping beds and cupboards upside down 
digging for the contact list of my ex-classmates. It would be easier if there was at least a contact 
number written on the New Years' card." 

I am going, of course I am. 

I had long wanted to clarify things with them. There is no need to confirm anything by IFF, they 
long had enough information for me to classify them as an alien, time traveler and esper foe. 
Since they had decided to come together and not operate separately, it allows me to waste less 
effort. 

"Be careful not to catch a cold after bathing. And, help me say hi to your parents." 

The phone lightly hung up. 

I hurriedly got out of the bathtub, put on my pajamas and hurried towards my room. 


P-2 


I speedily picked up the phone Shamisen was lying on and called. Somebody picked up after 
only a few rings. 

"I am Koizumi." 

The way you always remain on standby to pick up the phone as soon as possible is something 
that I really admire. 

"Because I felt that you would be contacting me very soon, in fact it seemed to have come a bit 
later. I originally expected you to call right after we were dismissed." 

I called you immediately after Sasaki called me, if this is still considered late, I guess I have to 
put superluminal particles in the phone line. 

"Seems what we are talking about isn't of great concern. So that is why, is it the other side that 
contacted you? No, I actually expected you to call me no matter if Sasaki-san called you or not. 
Didn't you have some things to ask me?" 

"Do you know that Tachibana Kyoko girl?" 


"Of course I do. After all she is someone who has no similarities with the 'Organization', which 
means she is from a competing faction." 



I really wanted to know what kind of competition it is. It shouldn't be some war with guns at a 
secluded corner I suppose. Don't tell me it is a war with superpowers in Closed Spaces? 

"If that is possible, it would be really interesting. Unfortunately, this is not something that is so 

simple. Because she is not able to enter the Closed Spaces created by Suzumiya-san It is just 

that Tachibana Kyoko and her group is not much different from the 'Organization' I belong to. 
We had activities due to similar interests but each of us have our own explanations to them. I 
guess it can be put that way." 

And that is the so-called legendary theory about the new world created by Haruhi three no, 

four years ago? 

"Although the inability to prove the theory causes it to remain an assumption, if we put it more 
simply this is how it will be. There are many believers in the 'Organization' as well. Regarding 
the fact that the source of our powers being Suzumiya-san, it is something that we had agreed 
upon. This point can be made without any exaggeration. All members, including myself, had 
already agreed with it." 

What about Tachibana Kyoko? 

"That is why I said she is one of those representatives that doesn't have the powers bestowed 
upon her. Yet she just thinks that she does, making her different from us. A bunch of people 
refuse to believe Haruhi is a god. They could have been innocent bystanders, and yet somehow 
knew about these things and wanted to appear on the stage, although I understand how she feels 
as well." 

Koizumi's explanation seemed to be carrying some expression of pity. 

"So, what did Sasaki say?" 

"Tomorrow, I will be meeting them." 

I told him everything Sasaki said. 

"Don't know why, they seem to have something to say to me, and I have something to say to 
them as well. Even to the extent of giving them a dressing down." 

Koizumi laughed lightly a few times and continued. 

"Let me add on. Tachibana Kyoko will never carry out any acts of violence against you or 
Suzumiya-san. Regarding the kidnapping incident, she is actually disapproving of it. The 
problem lies with the inability of some people to control themselves after believing the honeyed 
words of the time traveler. And to them, you two are equally important. The one that is 
dangerous should be the opponent of Nagato-san. Her thoughts are harder to decode than that of 
the Integrated Data Sentient Entity." 



After telling me to "Please be very careful", the emergency telephone call between Koizumi and 
me ended. The reason why we did not have a longer chat is because I know Koizumi should 
know what I am trying to say with these. If I am kidnapped then, I would have to trouble you. 


"After that " 

The next is Nagato. 

I am able to remember her phone number clearly even without using a phone book. 
This time round, the phone rang thrice. 


"Nagato, it's me." 


"Regarding tomorrow " 

Although there is no reply, just from the silent breathing, I am able to tell who it is that picked up 
the phone. I continued the phone call without any form of response. All the way till I mentioned 
"And so tomorrow, I will be meeting the alien I met today." before she replied 

"I see." 

I heard Nagato's voice that is devoid of any emotion. 

"If Sasaki did not lie to me, they plan to solve the problem peacefully. Koizumi thinks so as well. 
That is why I decided to consult your opinion." 


After a period of silence that lasted as long as one takes to check a dictionary 

"The current moment is of low risk. This can be approached without concern." 

Because this came from Nagato, it is very convincing. I felt my body suddenly relaxing. 

"The Integrated Data Sentient Entity is currently analyzing their reports." 

"Is there any actual information captured?" 

"Not yet, the only things determined are that it is a macro-spatial quantum cosmic existence." 
"Did you manage to successfully communicate with that fellow named Kuyoh?" 



"Unable to find common link. Thought process remains unclear." 

The riddling alien still remains a riddle? 

Just when I am wondering whether I could catch that Kuyoh woman and pass it to some alien 
development organization, Nagato suddenly continued. 

"Their salutation has been standardized temporarily." 

"Oh, tell me about that then." 

"Canopy Domain." 

Without considering any dramatizations, Nagato revealed the name in monotone. 

"From what we see, they came from above the sky." 


a - 2 


After finishing my younger sister's homework together with her, I left Shamisen with her and 
returned to my own room. I picked up the phone lying on my bed and called. Somebody picked 
up after only a few rings. 

"I am Koizumi." 

The way you always remain on standby to pick up the phone as soon as possible is something 
that I really admire. 

"Because I felt that you would be contacting me very soon, in fact it seemed to have come a bit 
later. I originally expected you to call right after we were dismissed." 

I am not such an impatient person. Although in actual fact, I needed some time to conclude my 
own thoughts. 

"Those fellows this morning, what exactly is it about?" 

"This is something I wanted to ask you as well. But you need not speak too much of anything 
regarding Tachibana Kyoko. I had already expected their group to run out of patience and start 
taking action. The kidnapping incident back then is just a foreshadow to what is about to happen 
next, although we cannot say it is something that is caused by Tachibana Kyoko." 


Didn't expect you to speak for the other side. 



"I hoped to prevent any needless competition as well. A violent confrontation is totally not my 
style. Luckily Tachibana Kyoko, if you stretch it, is someone who can be communicated with. A 
rational opposition is better than an ignorant ally, this is something that is worth being a classic. 
No matter what, it would be best if they can just remain bystanders. This is a suitable time for 
action, which is the same situation as when 'spring is near when winter began'. This would be 
much better than remaining in a cold war isn't it?" 

Can you not use words that will cause attrition to my nerves? 

"Or there is another possibility. Maybe the time traveler gave her some weird ideas. We should 
also not forget even Nagato-san's opponent has made an appearance, they would have to take 
action now." 

What exactly are those fellows trying to accomplish? 

"Honestly speaking, Tachibana Kyoko's group and the 'Organization' I belong to are totally 
unrelated, although there are not many major differences. We had activities due to similar 
interests but each of us have our own explanations to them. I guess it can be put that way. It is 
just that they wanted to minimize and purge instances of the possibility of them making mistakes 
themselves. This I understand very well, because this is equally valid for me as well. The reason 
we can have superpowers is because of the powers Suzumiya-san bestowed upon us. This is a 
fact that could not be wavered." 

And that is the so-called legendary theory about the new world created by Haruhi three no, 

four years ago? 

"This is not a matter of believing or not believing. Even if we remove the 'god' from the 
salutation, 'Suzumiya-san is the source of Closed Spaces and Celestials, and the reason we exist 
is to control the situation' is a fact that is agreed upon. Because I knew of this since the 
beginning, if we say it is otherwise only now, I will be very troubled. So this is something I am 
not willing to make concessions on." 

It would be best if we are debating to solve this problem, Koizumi said with the tone of a 
bystander. 

"Tachibana Kyoko and Sasaki-san would still be fine. At least, they live in the same time as us 
humans, with the same values, and thus easier to monitor. The one that is totally unpredictable 
would be that one not belonging to the Integrated Data Sentient Entity, with no other similar 
party other than Suou Kuyoh herself. From this point, she is the monomer that still exists on 
Earth. Since we do not even know what methods she employs, much less will we know about her 
motives. Compared to her, time travelers and the like can even be said to be 'cute'." 


Although Asahina-san's cuteness is something of an obvious fact, I do not think all time travelers 
are this way. 



"I agree with this as well. Asahina-san, who is part of our team, falls under the category that 
protects the target. After all she is a senior with irresistible cuteness, we can't possibly leave her 
alone. It is just that we do not want them to bring their future conflicts to the past. I guess 
problems regarding time travelers should be solved by time travelers themselves." 

Or it will be too irresponsible. Koizumi added. 

"Anything other than this can be settled by Nagato-san and myself. You too, if you see any evil 
arms reaching towards Suzumiya-san, you will definitely not sit still right?" 

Of course, she is our brigade leader after all. 

"We will just wait for the other party to take action. No need to think too much about it. No 
matter what, we still have Suzumiya-san on our side after all." 


P-3 


Just as I finished with the phone call with Nagato, probably due to impatience, my younger sister 
had already brought along all her work to look for me. 

But she immediately threw her practice questions and stationery on the floor and started fooling 
around with Shamisen. After my younger sister had enough fun with Shamisen and finished her 
work, an hour had passed. She undoubtedly has the same blood flowing through her veins as 
mine, not much talent with academics. She can do the four fundamental operations of arithmetic 
easily, but if the question introduces a twist somewhere, she cannot continue. 

I passed the practice questions booklet with the answers I had worked out for her together with 
the lesson notes back to her while saying the following. 

"Go to sleep since you have finished, it would be best if you could bring Shamisen along. He 
always presses on my blanket and is so heavy that it is uncomfortable." 

"Shami- want to sleep together?" 

The calico cat raised his head and looked at my sister with doubt, and proceeded to move slowly 
towards my blanket. 

"He says no." 

My younger sister seemed to be very happy as she hugged her work, skipping happily like a 
dancer as she went out of the room. As my younger sister, this is considered obedient. I shall 
give you a bonus point for this one. 



I conveniently turned on the television. Although there are obviously no shows to watch, I 
changed channels randomly while pondering about the event tomorrow. Think it is better to be 
slightly prepared. 

Might as well sleep earlier tonight. 


a - 3 


After talking on the phone with Koizumi, I wondered whether I should give Nagato a call as 
well, but after thinking that it is already so late and that there is nothing much to talk about even 
if I did, I returned the phone to the side of my bed. 

If Kuyoh is like a death god that will determine the survival of Nagato or something like that, she 
would of course not remain silent. What's more tomorrow is a Sunday, a normal weekend our 
merciful leader bestowed upon us. Shall use the time to take a good rest and recuperate. 

Once Monday comes, whatever reluctance would still be faced in the classroom or the clubroom. 
If I pay a visit to the clubroom during lunch time, I should be able to listen to Nagato's alien 
seminar anyway. 

Just when I was about to take out that book that I haven't returned for reading, a scratching sound 
came from the door. I opened the door and Shamisen crawled in, its throat producing croaking 
sounds and a face filled with exhaustion. Without even greeting the person who opened the door 
for him, he climbed onto the bed, rolled into a ball and started sleeping away. 

This seemed to symbolize that the world and cats' lives are eternal. 


a - 4 


Next day, Sunday. 

I didn't have much to do, only read some books, played some games, fully enjoying the time 
spent alone. Uneventfully, it is evening. This rest day without any link to Haruhi and related 
incidents, is great, though it happens sparingly. 

Tomorrow is about to start. The melancholy-inducing Sunday night is about to pass, the start of 
the week with the only reason for existence is for weekends to come quickly, a new day of a 
week with an odd number. 



Monday is about to come. 


P-4 


Next day, Sunday. 

I had already woken up at seven in the morning. Thirty minutes after the alarm clock rang, I was 
fully prepared and entered standby mode for departure from home. 

I had never felt that breakfast and washing up, morning routines I am used to for a long time, are 
as much a waste of time as they are today. Could have slept a bit more originally, but if I slept 
more, I won't wake up for another two hours. 

Can't be helped, I can only read the morning papers in the kitchen. Right at this time, my 
younger sister, who is extremely proud of her achievement as being the earliest to wake up in the 
entire family, stared at me intently with a look of disbelief. 

"Wow, Kyon woke up earlier than me for two days in a row. Why-?" 

What is there to 'why' about? I am now living the life of a high school student that is much busier 
as compared to a sixth year grade school student. You will sooner or later reminisce about the 
time when you were the current you, so you should enjoy your grade school life fully now. Don't 
write things in your graduating speech that would make others laugh at you. 

"Ohh- where are you all going today? Haruhi should be there too?" 

If answered honestly, she might want to tag along. Although Sasaki would reveal an 
understanding smile, that time traveler guy would definitely carry a look of disgust. No, I should 
just let younger sister come along, after all it is considered a way of getting back at them. 

"I'm meeting some middle school friends today." 

But, I eventually decided to conveniently send her away. There would be plenty of chances to 
meet Sasaki later on, also, I do not wish to make my younger sister, who still believes in the 
existence of Santa Claus and had a pure and innocent upbringing, to know the hard truth so early. 
Aliens actually being extremely clever, time travelers being brats that piss people off et 
cetera destroying fantasies like this seems a tad too cruel. 

You stay at home with Shamisen instead. And, if Haruhi calls the house, you go think of some 
reason to cover up, whatever reason is up to you. But you have to be careful, you are not to 
mention even the 'Sa' of 'Sasaki'. 



0~kay. 


My younger sister rushed off to wash up with thump-thump sounds. 

Now is the chance. Although it is still early, I think I better set off now. If I am questioned by my 
younger sister later and end up leaking anything, it is going to be troublesome. I feel uneasy all 
over when staying home, having a feeling of wanting to end all the activities of today as soon as 
possible that is pretty unbearable and constantly presses into my chest. 

But, just when I stepped out of house, I realized that my occasional habit of being an early bird 
has incurred the wrath of the skies. 

Just as if it is waiting for me to open the door 

"It's raining already?" 

I returned the key to my bicycle that I originally intended to use back to its original position, 
stretching the other hand to pick up an umbrella before saying the said phrase. 

From a slight drizzle to a pitter-pattering plum rain and then to a thunderstorm with dark clouds 
obscuring the entire sky. This entire process takes less than thirty seconds. 

Although there is no thunder. 

I endured the pattering of the rain as I approached the train station, spotting the trio from 
yesterday waiting for me. 

Sasaki carried a blue foldable umbrella, Tachibana Kyoko a branded "Fen" something one. Like 
a genetically-similar replica of Nagato, Suou Kuyoh donned the uniform of her girls school, 
carrying a transparent umbrella that looked like it was bought from a convenience store, a 
demonstration of the totally different personalities of the three in the heavy rain. 

Kuyoh's extraordinarily long black hair, although having already exceeded that of those that 
could be covered by an umbrella bought at a convenience store, shows no sign of being drenched 
by the rain. She also seemed to have turned transparent to the unrelated pedestrians. However, to 
prove that theory wrong, those pedestrians, upon hitting her umbrella, would move away 
immediately. This is really convenient. 

Oh yeah, that time traveling brat hasn't shown his face yet. Did he turn into some chameleon 
sticker by any chance? 

"No, he is at the coffee shop." 


Sasaki replied. 



"I would never wait blankly for a person in such huge rain, even more so the person is you 

that is what he said. So we let him have a seat away from the rain." 

What a self-righteous person. Seems the person's character hadn't changed a bit even after two 
months. Although I have no idea how many days had passed for him. 

"Seems you and him have really deep hatred. Although I haven't heard of anything regarding the 
incident from you, but I guess this beats not knowing each other at all, this is good." 

Sasaki laughed in her usual way. 

"I am not worried now. Because if he really had some ill intentions, I suppose he would not have 
taken such a direct approach. He took a similar approach with me as well." 

That is even more unforgivable. Shouldn't come if he hates this time frame. At least learn from 
Asahina-san. To find someone who works so hard for the tea-making business is not simple even 
in this time and age. 

Sasaki laughed softly. 

"I wanted to drink tea brewed by Asahina-san too. I could if I visited North High right? What a 
waste, I should have visited during the cultural festival last year. I will definitely go this year." 

I would of course not say things like "it is better if you don't appear." 

"You coming is of course not a problem. But our cultural festival has nothing too interesting..." 
"Both of you " 

Tachibana Kyoko suddenly invaded into the space between Sasaki and me. In order not to hit our 
umbrellas, she held hers high up. 

"Can casual chat be left to when only the both of you are around? The reason I called for you 
today " 

Tachibana Kyoko cleared her throat with an "Ahem" sound and looked darkly at Sasaki and me. 

" is because I have plenty to talk to you all about. This is something very important. I should 

have told Sasaki-san before." 

"Sorry", Sasaki said, smiling. "I did not forget, just that I am pretending to have forgotten. 
Honestly speaking, I do not know how to say those things out loud." 

In this period of time, Kuyoh remained motionless like a model made in a 1 : 1 ratio. Is she really 
not used to our kind of language? 



Following that, Tachibana Kyoko said. 


"We better get going. I have a premonition that ambassador from the future is more or less 
running out of patience in that shop. It is about time too." 

Just as she said that while walking, Kuyoh started moving without even nodding her head, 
moving slightly faster than Ksitigarbha with an umbrella carrying a heavy sack moving along a 
walkway covered with snow, following closely behind. On her face that is lacking any tinge of 
scarletness is a pair of sleepy eyes that makes people wonder whether she had already fallen 
asleep. I don't know if the alien here has low blood pressure or is unable to handle the humidity, 
making it seem as if her state of being changes daily. If Nagato is described as diamond dust, 
then Kuyoh gives a feeling of peony snow. 

Looking at Sasaki and Tachibana Kyoko, it is as if they had already taken Kuyoh as transparent. 
But I suppose they did that because they knew even if they ignored her, she would follow 
anyway. Regarding this point, it is rather similar as compared to Haruhi and Nagato. 

Kuyoh expressed an expected movement. Although the steps are not very large, there is no 
feeling of it being slow as well, continuously maintaining a similar distance from us. And I, 
while walking, discovered 

The direction we are heading in is the meeting place of the SOS Brigade since god-knows-when. 
It is the coffee shop where ninety-nine percent of the time, it is a particular member, me, who 
will pick up the tab. 

As I had predicted, the duo walking in front paused in front of the automatic sliding glass door, 
and a man holding onto a glass with a face full of unhappiness could be seen inside. 

That fellow raised his head up and discovered us, but all he did was to curl his lips 
uninterestedly. 

Just like when I met him near the flower bed, it is a Koizumi kind of smile that has been made 
evil. 

There is no need to imitate the SOS Brigade to such a stage, making me feel uneasy all over. 
And the me now is sitting at the exact same spot yesterday with the same member formation, 
beside me is Sasaki and opposite are the supernatural trio. 

After the female waitress left after leaving four drinks on the table, the five mouths, including 
mine, show no sign of movement. 

I am staring at the time traveler guy whose name I still do not know till now, Sasaki and 
Tachibana Kyoko with a look of relief. Kuyoh is as stiff as a clay doll, not making any sound. 
The atmosphere is like when a final meeting is being made by the army inside a castle that is 
surrounded by a huge opposing army, ready to fall anytime 



Automatically picking up the bundle as the emcee is Tachibana Kyoko. 
"Although many things happened " 



That fellow raised his head up and discovered us, but all he did was to curl his lips 

uninterestedly. 

With this phrase as the opening statement. 

"I am really excited now. Do you all know how many days I have waited for this day to come? 
We can now finally stand at the starting line now. Thank you for giving me the chance." 

She lowered her head and bowed at me. 


"I would also like to thank Sasaki-san, suddenly troubling you for such a matter, I am really 
sorry." 



Hm. 


Sasaki uttered a simple syllable, raised her head and looked at me. 

"Kyon, can you not show such a scary expression, at least listen to her first. I wish to refer to 
your conjecture, because you should be more knowledgeable with matters like this. After all my 
intuition and analytical skills are not that superior, and thus I chose to rely on previous examples 
and experiences of others. Because of this, your presence here makes me more relieved, since I 
have nobody to refer to this time round." 

I adjusted my gaze away from the face of the time traveler of similar origin as Asahina-san - the 
face that would not be able to bring any benefit to my eyes no matter how I look at it. 

"Please make the explanation short and simple." 

I tried to sound as serious as possible. But all I got in return is a cold laugh from the time 
traveler. How infuriating. 

"I shall first invite you to report your name." 

If you remained as an anonymous time traveler guy all the time, my perception of you would 
only become worse. 

Facing my second round of staring attacks, the guy with the face full of sarcastic expressions 
produced a voice that I had awaited for two months. 

"Names are just a sign of acquaintance." 

That ridiculing tone is no different from the one in my memory. He shifted his body for a bit, 
seemingly uneasy. 

"I don't mind whatever you all call me. There is no purpose to that at all. That is just like you 
people changing Asahina Mikuru to Asahina Michiru. Totally pointless." 

What a lover for negative sentences. I should have given my sister a ticket of approval and let 
her come along. Just a sentence or two from this guy is enough to bring one's emotions to the 
bottom of the pit. And how could Asahina-san be pointless? 

"Although you said that." Sasaki said to that fellow. "At this time and age, even if it isn't a real 
name, a salutation would help to make things easier. Even a governmental position or a status, 
for an ancient Japanese imperial guard or a governmental representative, that kind will do. Just 
tell Kyon." 

"Fujiwara." 

The time traveler unexpectedly replied. 



Just call me that. 


"He said that." 

After hearing him give a name that is very obviously made-up, Sasaki shrugged her shoulders at 
me. 


"In that case, the self-introduction of every member has ended." 

I suppose this counts as knowing each other's name. But I did not come here to know all these. 
After all I can address you all as time traveler (guy), Asahina kidnapper and Canopy Domain 
alien, no concern about salutations at all. 

"Urn." Tachibana Kyoko followed. "Next we move onto the main topic." 

After deliberately "ahem"-ing a few times to clear her throat, this esper girl who has an alien and 
a time traveler sitting on each of her sides revealed a smile of the door-to-door salesgirl. 

"We believe the existence of the real god is not Suzumiya-san but Sasaki-san here." 

A bomb dropped suddenly. 

I kept the cold drink in my mouth without swallowing, the thought of spitting it on her face 
flashed through my mind for an instant, but almost immediately decided against it, and so 
returned the glass onto the table while swallowing the drink before saying. 

"What did you say?" 

"No, that is what I said. Are there any parts that are difficult to comprehend?" 

Tachibana Kyoko revealed a bright expression and gave a great sigh of relief. 

"Phew it is finally said. I always wanted to tell you this. But because there is always no 

chance to do so, remained in my heart for quite a while. It would be better if Koizumi-kun isn't 
around. I even thought of transferring into your school this spring, but those people are really 
scary. I had reaffirmed this point not too long ago, I really do not wish to see that Mori-san 
again." 

That satisfied expression while laughing jovially is no different from a normal high school girl. 

"This is how it is. Just like how Koizumi-kun is bestowed with the responsibility to ensure 
Suzumiya-san's safety at all times, we have to do the same for Sasaki-san as well. But, both the 
aliens and time travelers had joined Suzumiya-san's side. This causes me to feel very uneasy and 
helpless." 

She looked at the two persons beside her and continued. 



"To prevent destruction by a similar body, I can only do this. Koizumi-kun has Asahina-san and 
Nagato-san but we don't. Thus, we need a similar replacement and it is finally assembled now." 

This is not something to be trusted just anyhow. If Haruhi is not the kind of godly presence in 
Koizumi's words, I have to ask myself what the heck I have been doing the past year. Nearly 
being killed by Asakura Ryoko, in actual fact I was stabbed once, an endless summer break, time 
traveling to and fro, receiving orders from an anonymous future, even more important is that of 

being fooled around by Haruhi's sudden impulses, Nagato's rampage if Haruhi isn't the 

mysterious events generating machine, won't all of this be impossible to happen? 

"This is one of the views, one of the realities. But the reality need not necessarily be limited to 
one only. The surface is just a false facade, while the truth is hidden way below the surface kind 
of thing, isn't it a very common style employed in detective stories?" 

If you wanted to discuss mysteries, look for Koizumi. On the other hand, if you want to discuss 
about novels, look for Nagato instead. 

"Sasaki" I said, "Do you really believe in all these?" 

Sasaki, who was flipping through the cafe's menu, raised her head. 

"Hm, honestly speaking, I had always felt intrigued. I am not too interested in myself and have 
no strong desires. If I could be raised to the status of being godlike just like this, I think it is best 
if it could be avoided. Even when playing football, I prefer playing as the quarterback. I would 
be happy if I could live a life without bringing trouble to others. I especially hate people who like 
to make a big deal out of themselves. I would feel very offended when I see people like these 
around." 

Sasaki waved her hands to catch the waitress's attention. 

"Oh yes, we haven't ordered anything yet. Has everyone decided?" 

That prankster smile is exactly the same as those she revealed in the middle school classroom. 

The waitress who is dressed simply with an apron wrapped around casual clothes came forward 
immediately with menus, during this process, the only sound made by the entire crew is that of 
Sasaki's "four cups of hot coffee" only. 

Time traveler Fujiwara and alien Kuyoh did not respond, only exhaling a "hmph" sound from the 
nostrils, while giving an expression of being immersed in eternal speechlessness. I really want to 
know what the people around us think about us. Even if we reluctantly think towards the bright 
side, it would be very difficult to think that this is just a meeting of high school students. I 
increasingly felt that compared to a situation like now, SOS Brigade appears much more normal. 


Tachibana Kyoko, who first started talking, broke the ice again. 



"This would be it. I believe you would have heard of it from Koizumi-kun as well right? The 
matter about Suzumiya-san creating this world about four years ago. She has a strange power, 
and yet is not conscious of it herself, unknowingly creating Closed Spaces. Koizumi-kun and the 
rest were suddenly awakened and formed the 'Organization' which continued till now. Suzumiya- 
san kept having her wishes come true, bringing aliens and time travelers to her side. But, my 
companions and myself believe that this power should lie with Sasaki-san." 

It is just purely thoughts after all. Thinking has no shackles to limit it anyway. But it will be 
different if actual events had already occurred. This is a country governed by law, and 
kidnapping is a major offense. 

"Regarding that incident, I would like to apologize. But, this doesn't seem very likely to succeed 
right from the start due to strong interference from the future. It is only an attempt. I have no 
plans of succeeding at all, but at least it is not fruitless, since we can inform you of our existence. 
This is considered a great step forward already." 

If I am the moon, I would probably be wondering "why are you leaving strange footprints on 
me?". 


"Four years ago." 

Tachibana Kyoko narrated the events as if she is telling her friends something that happened in 
the television serial shown yesterday. 

"I suddenly felt that I had received some form of power without any omen. It is something that I 
had knowledge suddenly. Since I do not know the reason, I would much less know why me. 
What I know is that I am not the only one turning this way, there are other companions too, and 
this originated from one person." 

That shining pair of eyes casted beside me. 

"And that is Sasaki-san. Even before I thought about it, I already knew you are the person who 
granted me the powers. I immediately started looking everywhere for Sasaki-san, on the way 
meeting my companions. Everyone has the same belief as me." 

I recalled the members of the kidnapping syndicate who got off the van. 

"Just when we are discussing whether we should make contact with Sasaki-san, and if we were, 
how, there was something very strange. I don't know why, but there seemed to be another group 
very similar to ours, and those people are very similar to us too. However, they seemed to be 
concentrating on a person that is not Sasaki-san." 

And that is the 'Organization'? 


"Yes, they are the ones who treat Suzumiya-san with godlike status. And conflicts broke out 
between us, thinking that their opinion is wrong. In order to correct them, we met them many 



times as well. And yet they said we are in the wrong and refused to believe us no matter what. 
We are unable to accept their views, much less for them to do the same. Finally we talked about 
breaking off " 

Tachibana Kyoko nonchalantly looked afar before turning her gaze back quickly. 

"Since then we have not met at all." 

"And after that?" 

I said. Could there be any more views? 

"So, I wanted to ask you how would you want it?" 

This representative from a faction opposing the 'Organization' let out a huge sigh. 

"We firmly believe the powers Suzumiya-san are holding onto now originally belonged to 
Sasaki-san. However there must be a mistake somewhere that caused it to transfer to another 
person. And therefore, I hope to change things back to how it was. In that case, the world will 
definitely move in a much better direction." 

After that, she looked at me straight. 

"I hope to have your help." 

"Sasaki." 

I escaped from her line of sight. 

"Whatever this fellow said, what are your views?" 

"I do not wish to have these unknown powers." 

Sasaki spoke with a voice of clarity. 

"Although it is not something to be proud of, not only am I an introvert, I am also a below 
average mortal. Even if I acquire those humongous and unexplainable powers that are beyond 
imagination, it will only wither with time. I will definitely end up with some mental problem. 
Hey, it is better if it can be avoided." 

"She said that." I said. "Even the person said that herself, why don't you just give up?" 

"Do you seriously feel it is better to leave things this way?" Tachibana Kyoko showed no sign of 
retreating. "Do you seriously wish to have Suzumiya-san in control of these powers? Even in the 
future? In that case, you wanted to be fooled around with by Haruhi for the rest of your life? Do 



you know that this does not only concern you, but it is everything in this entire world that will be 
fooled around with by her!" 

That gaze full of urgency turned towards Sasaki. 

"I would like to invite Sasaki-san to reconsider. Compared to Suzumiya-san, you are more 
suitable. This is something that would never be wrong. You do not have to worry about anything. 
You just have to continue living in this world unknowingly. I am very sure that Sasaki-san would 
not twist the world upside-down. I know you can do that." 

Sasaki fixated her gaze upon me. That smile that seemed to be asking me "Really?" is again 
totally similar to the one I've seen in middle school. 

My head started to ache. I also know that Tachibana Kyoko is very serious regarding this issue 
and very candid about it as well. Whatever she wanted to say, I have understood to the extent of 
being impossible to understand further. 

If there is a need to make an assumption, Haruhi is like a time bomb, except without the timing 
readout. Even the timer is totally random, impossible to predict. And thus an explosion cannot be 
predicted as well. A person like her, for some reason, had the mystical power to control the 
world. Unless one has the benevolence of Sakyamuni Buddha or Jesus Christ, would be unable 
to bear with it. 

But, this is a conclusion that is made under the circumstance that she is not aware of the 
aforementioned. 

I understand it very well, so does Koizumi, Nagato and Asahina-san. But, that girl does not know 
about it all. It is just like this, it is just a very straightforward and innocent problem like this. 

I faced Tachibana Kyoko again. 

"I am of course able to understand your theory, but what do you plan to do now? No matter how 
one thinks about it, Haruhi indeed has the ability to defy all laws and realize wishes to a certain 
extent, although it isn't a good thing. For example, making cherry blossoms bloom during 
autumn and things like that. But, doesn't Sasaki have such a power now? Wouldn't that be 
impossible then? No matter how you insist that Sasaki is a god or something, the reality would 
not change." 

Haruhi would usually not really let her subconscious drift too far from reality. You can even say 
they do have a bit of logic if you look at them differently. The most is her use of wish papers in 
temples to bind me to a lowly position in the Brigade. That person seems to love this current 
world quite a lot as well, and would no longer do strange things to destroy it already. As for 
Closed Spaces and Celestials, it is only a shortcut for Koizumi to earn some extra pocket money, 
not really something of great danger. 


It is really so. 



Tachibana Kyoko changed to an expression of sadness. 


"Although it is really so, but I always felt that Sasaki-san would be more suitable. You might 
understand Suzumiya-san very well, but you should understand Sasaki-san equally well right? 
After all the amount of time spent together is about the same too." 

Third year middle school and first year high school would of course be very similar from a 
timely perspective. But, the closeness is different. I did not form some strange brigade together 
with Sasaki to waste time outside school, as for the amount of conversations, Haruhi wins by 
scoring an ippon. She always sits behind me in class and slaves me around in the Literature Club 
clubroom after school. This is an unchanged rule since the formation of the brigade. And while I 
had activities with the SOS Brigade, there is a one year gap where I had no form of 
communication with Sasaki. Even if I had a habit of maintaining very good relations with an old 
friend, I can't possibly just leave the current activity grounds like this. Not only Haruhi, Nagato, 
Asahina-san and Koizumi had been with me for so long, I also help them sometimes. Even if for 
that three brigade members, I cannot possibly change Haruhi to other people, and do not wish to. 

Even if one recalls that Haruhi is a mysterious bomb that puts any ideas popping into her mind 
right into action, I cannot possibly just leave her alone like this. I haven't even shown her the 
trump card yet. Won't that be an opportunity to show the better side of myself in a major crisis? 

"And I think Sasaki would not agree. I think it is better if you stop now. Koizumi would still be 
okay, but if you do anything to irritate Nagato, Haruhi will explode in a chain reaction. At that 
time, I do not know what would happen." 

"And that is why I hope to deactivate Haruhi's powers so that you all would not have to worry all 
day." 

Tachibana Kyoko put her palms together, as if praying. 

"We are not even thinking of our own benefit, just look at Koizumi-kun, just maintaining the 
status quo is already so difficult, but if it is Sasaki-san, there would not be a need to. I am really 
hoping from my heart for stability in the world." 

"Even if you put it this way I can't help it at all." 

Sasaki let out a small sigh, and turned towards the direction of the counter. 

"Our hot coffee is coming way too slowly." 

She fiddled with the ice cube in her glass with her fingers while acting nonchalantly. 

"Kyon, I suddenly have a query. Grade school student, middle school student, high school 

student, university student Of all these names, why is the high school student written 

differently from the rest? Is this something worth thinking about " 



Sasaki-san! 


Tachibana Kyoko seemingly hurriedly screamed out loud, but immediately lowered her head, 
embarrassed. She seemed really disheartened. I am starting to sympathize with her. You really 

found the wrong target. Although to me it could be a little but Sasaki, among my friends, is 

someone who is very normal. She is not the kind of idiot who would agree immediately when 
others ask whether she wanted to be a god. 

Hey, I am sounding more intelligent already. 

If Sasaki is still Sasaki, then no matter whom she must go against, she would never agree. 
Tachibana Kyoko seemed to have found the wrong person. She is not this kind of person. 

I used my fingers to point at the other two who just listened without contributing: Fujiwara and 
Kuyoh and said. 

"What do they think then? I know you wish to make Sasaki god, but what do your companions 
think? Have they reached a consensus too?" 

Of course, the reason that I would ask something like this is because judging from the 
expressions on the two weirdoes, I predict that they did not really take Tachibana Kyoko's 
opinion to heart. Fujiwara seemed really bored while looking at that cold glass, Kuyoh did not 
look at anything, just staring at the ceiling with a look of blankness. 

Tachibana Kyoko, with her brain drooped low, looked left and right through the gaps between 
the strand of her hair, upon seeing no response from the time traveler and the alien, drooped even 
lower. 

"Oh yeah, this is one of the difficulties as well. They have no interest in cooperating too." 

After hearing Tachibana Kyoko's voice that sounded like she is about to cry, Fujiwara laughed in 
an irritating way. 

"That is obvious. You talk about cooperating? I am not going to stoop as low as to work with the 
people in this time frame. I only came here after considering that I might be able to contribute to 
this time frame. Turns out there isn't much to expect." 

Listening to his kind of tone, if Tachibana Kyoko does get angry I will help to chip in a few 
words as well. He continued. 

"It doesn't matter whoever it is. Whether it is Suzumiya or Sasaki, if we only consider the natural 
occurrences, there will be no difference at all. Individual humans do not have great value. The 
power of extracting the time, the power of changing the universe, we just have to take note of 
these. As long as the power exists, it doesn't matter whose hands it is in." 


You should think so too right? 



Kuyoh did not give any response to the time traveler. Her fluffy hair having no sign of 
movement in the slight breeze from the air conditioning, she remains dazed beyond imagination, 
sitting on the chair, feeling as if she doesn't even know where she is. Is this fellow really in front 
of me? Even if she is sitting in front like this, her presence is now thinner than the word thin can 
define and is nearing zero. Don't know if I should say that she lacked thickness, I think even the 
electronic monitoring system at a construction site has more life than her. 

Just as the atmosphere is once again threatened to be enveloped by silence 

"Hmph! You all are really !" 

Tachibana Kyoko whizzed up and snatched the first word. 

"Stretch your hands out." 

She had her gaze upon me with seriousness. 

"Instead of using words, it would be easier to just let you experience it for yourself. In that case 
you will care about what I say. Just a while will do. Stretch your hands out." 

Just as if she wanted me to look at her hand, she stretched out her smooth and supple hands. 

Just as I wanted to check if I am drowning, pondering whether I should hold onto her hands as 
well, Sasaki touched me with her shoulders. 

"Kyon, please just follow Tachibana Kyoko-san's instructions." 

I stretched out my right hand. Tachibana Kyoko's moisturized fingers held onto my palms and 
proceeded with a further request. 

"Close your eyes. It will be over in a minute." 

I reminiscenced this familiar feeling while I followed her instructions. My lightly closed eyes 
can sense the brightness of a light, the ears that became more sensitive due to decreased sight 
picked up sounds that are not noise but that of classical music. This piece should be by Johannes 
Brahms. 

But 

"You can open your eyes now." 

The emergence of the voice of Tachibana Kyoko matches the time when the background music 
disappears. 


I slowly opened my eyes. 



I could see Tachibana Kyoko with a smile, holding onto my hand. There is only Tachibana 
Kyoko. 


My surroundings are in complete silence. There is no Sasaki, no Kuyoh and no Fujiwara. Other 
patrons and staff had disappeared elsewhere. Just like a mass disappearance, just like Mary 
Celeste, everything disappeared in the blink of an eye. 

Tachibana Kyoko and I sat at the same spot on the table, still holding onto each other's hand. 
"What " 

My eyes started moving by themselves. In the ambient lighting of this cafe, there is only the two 
of us left in this empty shell. What exactly happened here? Just when I wanted to say that, I 
suddenly felt a sensation of having experienced this before, and at the same time recalling it. A 
clone of the same place, nobody around... 

"Closed Spaces " 

"So this is how Koizumi-kun calls it." 

Tachibana Kyoko let go of my hand and whizzed herself up. 

"Although we cannot exactly describe it as a visit, but why don't we take a walk outside?" 
Tachibana Kyoko, like a fish in water, invited me outside. 

My heart thought that just sitting down would not help much either and so I agreed. I haven't 
been to a Closed Space for a while already. In fact, I had only come twice, once with Koizumi 
and the other with Haruhi. This is the third time, and it seems a lot like the one Koizumi sent me 
to by cab. 

I walked beside Tachibana Kyoko and watched how naturally the electronic sliding glass door 
opened. This is like how it is usually too. I don't know what the theory behind it is, but for some 
reason, there is electricity in this world too. 

Walking outside, the first thing I did was to look up at the skies. 

The rain has stopped. Wait, there is not even a cloud. The sky is not in a shade of gray. It seems 
there is no sun too, the light looks like it is part of the sky. The entire world seems to be 
enveloped in a foggy radiance. 

"Walk for a bit." 

Even though the entire street has nobody at all, giving me the vibes of a ghost town, it did not 
really have such a huge blow on me. This is exactly as how Koizumi had described. 



The difference is 


I had previously entered two Closed Spaces, both of which are covered in darkness. Although it 
could be because it is night, but I still remember the sights in that world with clarity. 

However, this world is filled with creamy whiteness: milky white on top of a rarely-seen 
radiance. Compared to the Closed Space in my memory this seemed much more cheerful. 

There is an even bigger difference. No matter how one turns his or her head, there are no 
lifeforms around. Those huge and alienate lifeforms can't be missed by the eye so easily. 

"Hehe" Tachibana Kyoko turned her head back. "Hm. You are right. There wouldn't be such 
things around here, and they do not even exist at all. This is my top recommendation. This is a 
good place right?" 

Grayish-white monsters, rash and destructive-prone lifeforms, are the result of Haruhi's 
subconsciousness. 

"There are no Celestials here, and there are no signs of them appearing. This is what my five 
senses are telling me. This Closed Space does not have anything that will threaten its existence." 

"Isn't this a Closed Space?" 

"It is a Closed Space? It is the same kind of dimension as you know." 

Tachibana Kyoko seemed very happy to tell me this and continued. 

"It is just that the creator of this world is different. This is not a world constructed by Suzumiya- 
san." 

Other than Haruhi who has the ability to create such a world 

"Yup. It is Sasaki-san. This is Sasaki-san's Closed Space. But, we do not feel any sensation of 
being closed at all. Let's put it this way, it is like the same dish made by different people. The 
personality and character of the person will affect the taste right?" 

She sounded like a housing agent selling this property to me as she said the following. 

"I just felt that this place gives a very comfortable feeling. You can feel the air of stability and 
friendliness right? How do you feel? There and here, which side lets you feel more secure? 

"Wait a moment." 


If I have to chose between living in either of them, I would chose none. 



"You meant the space created by Sasaki-san? What is the reason? When is it? Why are there no 
Celestials? Why does this world exist?" 


"No reason at all." She continued with a more relaxed tone. "This world is not a time-limited toy 
model. It always remains this way, existing ever since it started. Yes, since four years ago. The 
reason there are no Celestials, is because there is no reason for them to exist, because there is no 
need to destroy at all." 

No matter how hard I look, I am unable to find a bird flying in the sky. All my ears can pick up 
are absolute silence. 

"This is a very big difference. Sasaki-san did not have any thought of destroying or recreating 
this world. For Sasaki-san's consciousness, the outside or inside remains unwavered and is 
stabilized. This is indeed an ideal state. Even if she is unsatisfied with the reality, she would 
never attempt to reject the reality but let everything go with the flow." 

The only thing I can hear is the voice of this teenage girl. 

"I will ask you again. Which do you prefer? A god that may accidentally destroy the world, or a 
god with general knowledge that may not do anything, but does not attempt to destroy it either?" 

I suddenly felt like defending Haruhi for a bit. Actually she has plenty of general knowledge. 

Just that a screw becomes loose once in a while. At the end of all of it, she is still a normal 
woman. Although I do not know how she was in the past, the current Haruhi already knows how 
to live within the reality. Although she complicates things sometimes, she would never cause 
UFOs to rain from the sky. 

One thing that can definitely be confirmed is that she will no longer recreate the world. 

"You sure are confident of yourself. I feel that the things Suzumiya-san thinks subconsciously 
are things that nobody knows. Not even Koizumi-kun nor the time traveler." 

Tachibana Kyoko clasped both her hands together behind her body and turned around to face me. 

"Because even I don't know, and that is why I am feeling uneasy. But there would be no problem 
if it is Sasaki-san. You would know if you look at this place. There are no elements of instability 
at all." 

The smile she revealed is sprinkled with generous amounts of cuteness. 

"And so I believe Sasaki-san is the true holder of the power. The reason for that is as above. For 
Suzumiya-san to become this way, someone must have made a mistake somewhere to cause this. 

The superpower of unknown origin held by Haruhi, bestowing upon Koizumi his esper powers, 
attracted the attention of outer-spatial origin, according to the words of Asahina-san, considered 
as the mysterious cause to the major time quake. 



If all these things occur on Sasaki as well ? What would happen to the influence of the current 

SOS Brigade? 


Totally unimaginable. 

In order to chase away this unthinkable thought, I shook my head about. 

"So," I finally regained my voice. "What do you want me to do? Do you want me to transplant 
the powers from Haruhi to Sasaki? How is that possible?" 

Tachibana Kyoko looked at me seriously for a while before breaking into her jovial laugh. 

"It is not impossible. As long as you are willing to assist us, we can do it. It would be possible if 
Sasaki-san and you are agreeable. We only wish for so much. Isn't it simple?" 

She made a leap backward. 

"Let's return to the cafe. Our union for today shall end here. And I believe you need some time to 
reconsider." 

Talking about that, what exactly were we doing? We were originally sitting on the chairs at the 
cafe, and suddenly came out here, what exactly does Sasaki and the rest see us doing? 

Just when I wanted to raise this concern, Tachibana Kyoko is already briskly making her way 
back where we came from. Thinking about it, a guy and a girl existing in this empty world 
together is indeed a bit problematic. Although it is not time to mind such stuff, but I do not wish 
to stay too long either. This place is really too quiet. If there are Celestials around, there would at 
least be some buzz to speak of and help to divert some attention away. What exactly happened? 
Why am I actually missing such things? Is my mind alright? 

After the teenage girl's body entered the electronic glass sliding door for a few seconds, I am 
back in the cafe as well. Heck, I cannot even smell a hint of coffee anywhere. 

"Sit down quickly." 

Tachibana Kyoko returned to her original seat: between the trio, and put her hand on the table. I 
also returned to that seat still with my body temperature. 

"Please close your eyes and stretch your hands out." 

If I open my eyes, what exactly would I see? I thought about this while putting my hands on hers 
and closed my eyes, focusing all my attention on my sense of hearing. 

Tachibana Kyoko applied some slight pressure on my fingers 



And immediately let go. Right at that instant, my sense of hearing returned. No, it should be that 
the world is revived. 

Johannes Brahms playing in the background, slight pitter-pattering sounds from the rain outside. 
The rich aroma of the coffee beans, as well as the human flow, gushed into my five senses 
altogether. I opened my eyes. 

Sasaki raised her eyebrows and said. 

"Hey, you are back There should be nothing wrong with saying this right?" 

I took a close look at the surroundings. Fujiwara calmly supported his cheeks with his hands, 
Kuyoh's sleepy face shows no response, Tachibana Kyoko in the middle of the two of them is 
moistening her throat with the ice water. I then raised my previous query to Sasaki. 

"What was I doing just now?" 

"Nothing much." Sasaki turned her wrists over and took a look at the watch. "You two only 
closed your eyes for ten seconds, Tachibana-san and your hand constantly grasping each others' 
the entire time." 

She used that hand to touch her lips. 

"So, what did you see? That supposed subconscious world of mine?" 

"Hm." 

Although not very willing, I still nodded for confirmation. If it isn't a hallucination, it could be 
considered a look. But in the ten seconds through Sasaki's eyes, both Tachibana Kyoko and I did 
not disappear. This is a point which I cannot understand." 

"Any thoughts about it?" 

"Not really." 

"I thought so too." 

Sasaki laughed jovially. 

"How embarrassing. It felt as if you peeped at my inner thoughts." 

"Sasaki-san", Tachibana Kyoko put down her glass cup. "No matter how I think about it, I still 
think you are the most suitable. Can you look at this more positively?" 


Hmm, how shall I put it. 



Sasaki looked at me with her head slightly inclined. 


"Kyon, what do you think? That so-called mysterious superpower. Is it something that would be 
no problem even if I had it?" 

It is not something that can be determined to be good or bad, and why must you ask me? 

If we speak by intuition, even if Sasaki had that incredible yet strange superpower, it is unlikely 
that she would activate her powers just because of the unhappiness with the score in baseball, 
and not turn events in the movie into reality, not making August repeat endlessly, as well as not 
suddenly digging out a cultural artifact right? At the same time, she wouldn't wear a bunny girl 
costume and replace an injured senior and perform on stage nor argue with the student council 
president. 

No, those things do not really matter. The root of this issue is that it is not only Sasaki that is 
involved here. 

I cast a glance of nonchalantness to the other side of the table. 

Time traveler Fujiwara and the other two. 

You want me to cooperate with them? There should be a limit to cracking jokes. That time 
traveler who laughed at Asahina-san's name and that Asahina-san kidnapper. The other one is the 
person involved in the Snow Mountain incident, eventually leading to the collapse of Nagato. 

Things like this still have to be considered? 

Although I still want to remain good friends with Sasaki, if I were to work with this gang, not 
only will my body and soul not get tranquility, it might even move very far away from zero, right 
into the negatives. 

In order to express such a thought clearly, I took in a deep breath. 

"Sorry to keep everyone waiting." 

Just when I wanted to open my mouth, the waitress came towards our table with four cups in a 
tray. 

Thus I paused for a while and fell into silence together with the rest. 

This happens during normal conversations, much less during talk about things like this. Things 
like this had better not be heard by people uninvolved. 

As silence enveloped everyone, the clanking of the cups and the plates are especially 
pronounced. The first cup of hot coffee appeared in front of Sasaki, then me, Tachibana Kyoko 
and finally Kuyoh 



Piak. 


Unfolding in front of our eyes is a shocking scene. 

Kuyoh, who had never moved since the start, actually reached out to touch the wrists of the 
female waitress. 

I did not notice what time she moved her hand. In fact I could not even feel her moving. But 
Kuyoh is tightly holding onto the wrists of the female waitress, and what's more the hand 
carrying the tray with the cup of coffee to be placed on the table still on it. 

She fixed her gaze at the front without any change in expression, not moving other than the one 
hand. 

" Ah?" 

I opened my mouth wide like an idiot. 

What is even more shocking is the cup in the tray the waitress is holding onto should have spilled 
some coffee, but there is not even a drip of it spilled out. From the sound produced just now, the 
impact should have been pretty strong. 

Why 

I immediately understood. 

"How may I help you?" 

The waitress revealed a gentle smile, not showing any sign of disgruntledness or uneasiness. 
From the eyes of others, this is a very normal smile. But what I saw behind that facade was a 
sense of coldness similar to that of an icicle. This is not without reason. For that person's face is 
very familiar to me. 

"Emiri-senpai " 

I produced a sound that sounded more like a groan. 

" What are you doing here?" 

"Hello." 

With an apron covering the front of her chest, Emiri Kimidori-san is just like occasionally 
meeting one of the juniors in high school. And that is like the situation now: greeting each other 
nonchalantly. That tone that lacked sluggishness, it is unbelievable that an alien of unknown 
origin is currently holding onto the wrist of a living humanoid interface. Although I do not wish 
to use real life experience to confirm the strength of the grip of Kuyoh, it appears that it seemed 



much stronger than normal strength, and Kuyoh did not seem to bother about Tachibana Kyoko 
and Sasaki, who are staring in disbelief, and achieved a feat only non-humans can achieve: to not 
move any part of the body, including the girls' school uniform, other than her hands. 



Kuyoh, who had never moved since the start, actucdly reached out to touch the wrists of the 

female waitress. 


"I am really sorry, miss." 

Emiri-senpai said to Kuyoh, who had already turned into an inanimate object that does not make 
any sound. 


Can you please let go of me? If you don't, I am not able to serve your order. 


Her eyes looked like those of goldfish, not even blinking at all and to put it crudely, not even 
looking anywhere in particular. 


"Miss", Emiri-senpai's voice sounded like a shepherd somehow, "I beg of you, you should 
understand what I am saying right " 

I seemed to have heard the two of them producing sounds of charcoal burning in the boiler. Am I 
the only one who heard that? 


Kuyoh slowly loosened her grip. From the pinky finger to the thumb, just like worms slowly 
leaving Emiri-senpai's wrist one by one, and moving even more slowly back to the knees. 

"Thank you." While holding onto the cup of coffee, Emiri-senpai bowed politely, before putting 
the cup in front of Kuyoh. Seeing Kuyoh resuming her doll-like state, I finally let out a huge sigh 
of relief while asking. 

"What are you doing here, Emiri-senpai?" 

"I am working part-time." 

I knew that just by looking. If you are not working here you would obviously not be wearing an 
apron and bringing the coffee over. I wanted to know why you are working here suddenly as this 
question captivates more of my interest than the location of where the Tsar hid his gold. 

But Emiri-senpai nonchalantly left a subpoena on the table while speaking to me in a soft tone. 

"Please keep this a secret from the president. Because the student council's rules state that 
working part-time is prohibited." 

And it is okay for Nagato? No, compared to that 

"Please enjoy your meal." 

Both of our responses still remain unsynchronized. Emiri-senpai left with the tray very quickly. 
Looking at how skilled she is at the job, it seems as if she had been working here since three 
years ago. Had she always been the one bringing us our cold drinks and taking our orders? The 
reason for not noticing till now could be because one person becomes insignificant in such a 

large crowd kind of theory, or some influence coming from space if there really is one. I 

think it should be the latter. If Kuyoh can do it, I am afraid Emiri-senpai can do it too. 

"Who is she?" 

Regarding Sasaki's question 



"A... senior from my school." 

I can only answer this way. Just when I am comparing Kuyoh's apparently extremely eye- 
catching and yet attracted nobody's attention's looks to Emiri-senpai, who is skillfully pouring 
tea for newly-arrived customers 

"Hehe." 

Someone let out a strange laughter, seemingly from being unable to hold it back any longer. That 
is Fujiwara. He curled his full-of-sarcasm lips. 

"Hahaha, I had indeed seen something interesting. This is what I call a farce among the farce. 
Wahaha, isn't this something that could only be seen once in a lifetime? What an interesting 
farce. Haha." 

I am really tempted to just pour the coffee on his face, but this time traveler seemed really 
amused. If he is not in front of me I think he would probably hug his stomach laughing. In fact, 
his body has started quivering from all that laughing. 

Tachibana Kyoko with her face filled with astonishment slowly changed it to that of giving up, 
as if being unable to keep up with the speed of development of things and shrugged her 
shoulders. Sasaki and I checked each other's responses, wordlessly inquiring what exactly 
Fujiwara's response meant. But since there is no answer in the first place, it is naturally 
impossible to have an answer to that. Kuyoh's ashen white face is being covered by the rising 
fumes from the cup. 

Due to the sudden addition of the part-timer Emiri-senpai, the trio other than Kuyoh and 
Fujiwara (including me) are totally astonished. Just as I was getting bored facing this time 
traveler who produced disgusting laughing sounds while recalling the matter and the alien 
lifeform who totally ignored the steaming coffee in front of her, remaining static without moving 
an inch like a broken ore radio 


Kuyoh suddenly stood up without any warning, moving without a sound and in regular steps at a 
standard unrivaled by even the most skilful ninja towards the automatic sliding glass door. It is 
indeed an industrialized tool, although the people around cannot detect her, the sensory 
mechanism in the machinery managed to and the door immediately opened with a zoom sound. 
Kuyoh did not forget to bring her umbrella she bought from the convenience store back with her, 
and she finally disappeared to somewhere unknown. Maybe she sensed the anger among the few 
of us. But, what exactly is this fellow here for? 

"Me too " 


Tachibana Kyoko revealed a smile that is strong-willed despite appearing tired. 



"I am really a little tired today, so I shall go now. I actually wanted to talk more. Sasaki-san, I 
may have to trouble you next time. Ah, I will settle the bill here. It is alright. I would like to 
really thank you all today." 

She stood up and walked towards the counter and told the staff something about "Please issue me 
a receipt, just round up the numbers" or something like that and paid before waving to us and 
finally opened the umbrella and carried it home in the drizzle. 

I am also very unhappy after being taken as a joke by the time traveler and thus decided to leave. 

I still want to return to my bedroom for my nap together with Shamisen. 

"Goodbye, Sasaki." 

"Hm." Sasaki calmly raised her head to look at me and said, "I think I will be contacting you 
soon, I also know that this caused you trouble. But Kyon, I really do not want this matter to drag 
on for too long. Plus the next national mock examinations are coming up soon, it is better to clear 
these things quickly." 

"Fully agreed." 

I agreed with this opinion from the bottom of my heart. Lucky it is you, the same Sasaki I know 
from middle school. 

Fujiwara also somehow managed to resume wearing his uncaring expression while listening to 
our conversation, but did not comment in the end nor do anything that would make me 
uncomfortable. Although I am a bit mindful of the sudden appearance of Emiri-senpai that 
seemed more to astonish me, but once I think that she probably came here to observe Kuyoh, it 
becomes understandable. If the person facing Kuyoh is Nagato I am afraid she would not be able 
to control herself as well, and that Asakura Ryoko did not come back to life, is really wonderful. 
After all, something like having a small knife piercing my body, even in my topsy-turvy life, is 
one of those experiences that I would reject totally. 

Because I left the cafe just like this, I have no idea what Sasaki and Fujiwara talked about. 

I do not wish to know either, that was how it was at that time. 


(Volume 9 Chapter 2 End) 



Chapter 3 

a - 5 


Monday. Morning. 

Thanks to the fact that they spent Sunday in complete leisure, my legs were feeling light today. 

As the days began to approach the middle of the fourth month, I, who would no longer go to the 
first year school building by accident but quickly adjusted to my new seat in the class of 2-5, 
turned around and spoke to the black-haired head in front of me. 

"What's wrong? Defeated a month early by May sickness?" 

Haruhi, who had arrived at school before I did, sighed and languidly attached herself to her desk 
while looking fatigued. 

"No..." 

Haruhi simultaneously raised her head and let out an "Unh", which grew up to a yawn. 

"Just a little lack of sleep. I've been going to bed late. I was busy with a lot of stuff yesterday, 
you know." 

Speaking of which, just what were you doing? Listening to the radio late at night or something? 
"Why must I reveal my private life to you?" 

Pouting her lips like a crocodile, "Teaching that kid from my neighborhood, cleaning the 
clubroom, doing weekly remodeling, that's already 'a lot of stuff.' Although I do listen to the 
radio every once in awhile. Also, I had to gather materials." 

While recalling Bespectacled Professor, I asked, 

"Materials? What materials?" 

"Argh, you're really like a kid aren't you. Really, you should be able to ask more than "what 
materials" at this stage. I wonder why it is that no matter how much time passes, guys never age 
mentally? Childlike intellectual curiosity is innocent and charming, but if you've got a face like 
you're conducting an investigation, it makes me to not want to tell you. You're old enough 
already, use your own head to figure out what I do." 


Is the reason that the more I think about the things you do, the more it seems like you have no 
place in school, the result of my own misunderstandings? 



"Kyon, you listening? It's been a year since you've become a Brigade member. Develop an 
ability to read your Brigade leader's inclinations and intents, and then act on them ahead of time. 
With the way things are currently you'll always remain the lame brigade member. Because on 
my inner list, you're dashing straight to the very bottom." 

Laughing with her intrepid smile, Haruhi opened the notebook I use in first period's Japanese 
class, and with a method I can only see as waving her pen around, stupidly drew some lines on it. 

"If you put it into a graph it'd look kind of like this." 

On the longest line was Koizumi, and the lines which were footnoted "Mikuru" and "Yuki" were 
about the same length. If you're wondering about me, mine was about a 5mm line that wasn't 
raised anywhere near the other meritorious brigade members. This really doesn't make me sad, 
though. 

"Then the Computer Research Society's president's about this long, and Tsuruya is, hmm, already 
here. Look. You, you're even losing to outsiders! That flyer from before wasn't satisfactory at all, 
you know." 

You're probably thinking something like, "That's pathetic considering you're the most senior 
brigade member." As to that, the Computer Research Society's president's a generous guy who's 
donated a grand total of five computers to us and the height of Tsuruya's social status couldn't be 
placed even after the passing of a Chinese calendar sexagenary cycle. I'll give my sympathy vote 
to the Computer Research Society's president, so go ahead and raise his line a little more. This is 
trite. 

Haruhi, her expression turned to that of a booing hometeam supporter irritated at the opposing 
team's stalling, said, 

"Stupid! Be more spirited! There's about one month until the SOS Brigade's one-year 
anniversary. At that time, we'll be rapidly handing out many applications. If some first year 
brigade applicants come, are you planning on somehow playing out your upperclassman status? 
'Cause for your information, I will not be using the seniority system!" 

So are you planning on using Nobunaga's system? If it were the Warring States period, in a battle 
you should capture and imprison the enemy military commander, but at this school something 
like the student council's opposing influence should be more than enough to treat the cancerous 
SOS Brigade. Koizumi is the pillar backing up the student council president, and Tsuruya's 
family, although she appears not to know, backs the Organization. If one of the president's 
scandalous affairs were to be exposed, he probably has a retinue of foot soldiers to cover it up for 
him. Although he probably wouldn't want that. 

It seemed that Haruhi wanted to continue her sermon mode, but that was that, since both the bell 
chimed and Okabe-sensei entered the room, thus suspending her plans. 



But is that Haruhi still planning on gathering new members? And putting aside her goal, how is 
she even going to achieve it? 

But, even if I worry about it there's nothing that can be done. As for myself, there's Sasaki and 
Tachibana Kyoko, whom I met on Saturday. I'm anxious about that Kuyoh-something alien, and 
the time traveler who wasn't there that day but would probably be reappearing soon. It is indeed 
a pending problem, but I'll admit that if he doesn't come to start a fight, deep down I'm fine with 
laying it aside. 

As for the "if you've got it, bring it on" spirit, I'm fostering that feeling as if it were the larva of a 
stag beetle becoming a chrysalis. He can lay whatever traps he likes. But I'm going to make him 
pay a high price when it comes to reparations. Even in boxing, the might of a counter is greater 
than that of a simple straight. That's the way it always turns out in the boxing manga I was 
reading. And Haruhi is someone who repays her all of debts and grudges two hundred million- 
fold indiscriminately. 

No, there's no point in meaninglessly wasting words. 

There's just one brief thing that I'd like to say... 

If you make yourself an enemy of the SOS Brigade, do not think you will live easy. 


At lunch break, after giving Taniguchi and Kunikida a few words of nonparticipation, I put down 
my lunchbox and headed for the Literature Club room. 

Even if you look around the school, you won't find a place that has a heavier atmosphere at this 
current moment, and Nagato Yuki was keeping to her totally predictable movement patterns. 

"Mind if I come in?" 

Nagato, sitting in her chair reading a Western occult book, didn't raise her head. 


"Let me eat here. The classroom is just too noisy. I figured it's good to eat somewhere a little 
more calm every so often." 

"Hmm." 

Nagato raises her head in the manner of a self-rightening doll in a slow motion film, her 
sweeping eyes float over me, and then return to reading. 


Have you already eaten? 



With a nod, Nagato's slender neck inclined forward slightly. 

Her response seemed pretty questionable, but figuring out Nagato is not something for 
lunchtime. 

"About the alien called 'Kuyoh' " 

Sitting down in the chair and wrapping my lunch box in a wrapping napkin, I said, 

"She serves as the hand of the faction that orchestrated the attempt to freeze us to death in winter, 
right? 

Nagato, using her hand as a replacement for a bookmark and returned her eyes to me, replied, 
"Yes." 

"What was it you said before... um... she's a humanoid whatever that gives off the same aura you 
do." 

"Perhaps." 

"Could she have come for -that-, observing Haruhi or something?" 

After taking the time required for a star to blink, 

"I don't know." 

Something like, your mutual cognizance is incomplete, right? 

"Yes. That she is interested in Suzumiya Haruhi's data alteration capabilities is unquestionable. 
It's one of the reasons for her dispatchment to this planet." 

Nagato said this in a businesslike manner. 

"They, the Canopy Domain—" 

A word I couldn't ignore entered my ears, so I stopped her. 

"Canopy... what?" 

"Canopy Domain." 

Nagato, who pronounced this quietly, said, 



"That is the Integrated Data Setient Entity provisionally chosen name for them. It is great 
progress. Until now, we have not even had the concept attaching names." 

While holding my chopsticks, I thought of the meaning of the name "Nagato Yuki," and she said, 
"From our point of view, it's derived from beyond the zenith direction." 

She added in a flat voice. 

"And the 'zenith direction' is," I said, pointed my chopsticks at the ceiling, "Over there?" 


Allowing the time for the mental multiplication of seven squared to pass, Nagato replied, 

"Over there." 

She pointed towards the mountain range outside of the clubroom's window. Although I 
understand the fact that it's north, it's an existence that cannot be seen no matter your methods, 
even by radio telescope. It wouldn't really matter which direction it came from. Bothering 
oneself with location's compass direction is the job of a diviner. And more than that, 

"Nagato. Those bastards, are they planning on doing something like throwing us into another 
dimension similar to the one in the last disaster they forced on us?" 

"I am currently unable to see any such indication." 

Nagato, who had raised her arm behind herself diagonally, returned her hand to the work of 
holding her page and said, 

"A humanoid interface capable of conducting linguistic contact with us has showed us her form. 

I predict that for her, hereafter some physical contact will become necessary." 

"That girl..." 

This reduces the peculiarities about the girl called Suoh Kuyoh by half. There's a lot of things I'd 
like to accuse the Integrated Data Sentient Entity of, but I will acknowledge just that they have a 
good sense in interface making. If you compare Kuyoh to Nagato, Kimidori-san, and let's even 
throw in Asakura Ryoko, the latter are greatly preferable. 

Nagato said without emotion, 

"I will defend against the basic attacks from the individual known as Suoh Kuyoh. I cannot allow 
any additional dangers towards you and Suzumiya Haruhi." 


Your words are more reliable than any of anyone else's. However, Nagato 



Nagato replied before I could open my mouth. 


"Or towards Asahina Mikuru or Koizumi Itsuki." 
And you as well, Nagato. 


Towards Nagato's fixated eyes, I answered by putting in my own judgment. 

You may not take yourself into consideration, but I am different, and so is Haruhi. You can blow 
aside Kuyoh and the Canopy Domain, but having no concern for yourself is behavior I absolutely 
will not allow. Being protected all the time isn't interesting. The things I can do might be as 
insignificant as common space dust, but there should still be something I am able to do. 


Nagato lowered her eyes back to the pages of her book, and I, who had taken my opportunity to 
speak, started on my lunch. There's no comparison between these days with the first day she 
invited me to her 708 apartment room. To think that this silence, uninterrupted by any words, 
could give rise to such a sense of comfort 


All of the afternoon classes had finished, and after homeroom's completion and the signal for the 
class-ending ritual had been given, form teacher Okabe-sensei descended from the podium and 
my classmates noisily began to rise from their seats. Students who did not have cleaning today 
had no more business in class, so I picked up my bag, stood up, and found that my bag, which 
shouldn't really have anything in it, rapidly became heavy. 

Upon turning around, I found that Haruhi had extended her hand and grabbed onto my case. Her 
hand is quite powerful. 

"Wait a second." 

Haruhi, who had been sitting, continued while glaring somewhere around my ear, 

"Do you remember that we have a math quiz tomorrow?" 

"Ah... sort of." 

Now that she mentions it, I seem to remember last week our math instructor made an 
announcement, but I have a great deficiency in keeping such trifling matters in memory. "So you 
forgot about it after all. Figured." 



Haruhi said haughtily with a sigh, 


"Because you're like that, you've caused the SOS brigade's members bell curve to drop all by 
yourself. Since it's a general test, even you should be able to get some points, so at least do that 
much." 

Are you my mother? More importantly, you should move from your seat. You're interfering with 
people's cleanup duties. 

"How can you be so unconcerned? You, bring your math textbook and come here." 

Haruhi stood up with great speed and dragged me up to the teacher’s desk. The many people on 
cleanup duty are accustomed to this, and didn't even look at Haruhi and me. Although the fact 
that their faces were growing weird smiles irritated me. 

Haruhi, who had wrested away my textbook, casually spread it open on top of the teacher's desk 
and said, 

"This number 2 example problem on page 9 will definitely show up on the test so make sure to 
memorize it. Along with this formula. This is a model question, so knowing Yoshizaki, it'll 
definitely be put in. What about the blackboard? Show me your notes." 

In the face of her rapidly-firing demands, all I could do was helplessly obey. 

"What's this? There's not anything written here besides what was partway through the lecture! 
You were sleeping after lunch, weren't you?" 

So what, it doesn't matter. Weren't you sleeping today in Classical Literature too? 

"If you judge it's safe to sleep, that's fine. It's about whether or not you understand even if you 
don't listen. But you don't understand, right? Get it? You're being especially wrecked by the 
maths and sciences, so you need to at least put in some effort." 

Haruhi said underlined some problems in my textbook with my pen and said, 

These are the minimum problems you must get done, so you need to memorize them. And you 
can't just memorize the answer because he'll switch around the numbers in the test. For starters, 
this one, this one, and..." 

In this manner, it turned out that I stood there and took Haruhi's special lecture with the teacher's 
podium between us. The people with cleaning duty who understood the situation fortunately 
ignored us, and we did them the same favor. This is somehow embarrassing. I'd be glad if you'd 
at least do this in the club room. 

"Idiot. The club room is a place for doing club activities, not a place for studying. It's a real 
killjoy to be doing something interesting in a place that isn't. "[Reader's note: Shouldn't this be 



reversed? Because "studying" is something boring and the clubroom would be the "interesting 
place? Or maybe I just got confused?] 



Looking bored, Haruhi pointed out problems that she imagined would appear on the test. 

Looking bored, Haruhi pointed out problems that she imagined would appear on the test, 
mentioned a complicated method of solving a problem, and didn't release the teacher's podium 
and me until I'd finally gotten all of the questions she pointed out correct. 

"Well, this should do it." 

Haruhi rolled up the pen and closed my textbook. If this were to continue for another 5 minutes, 
my brain would give voices of rejection related to overtime work. Our classmates, who had 
finished their cleaning, had all removed themselves. 


"With this, if you're below average on tomorrow's test there's no cure for you. You'll need 
surgery. If you can, keep all this in your memory until the midterm." 



I really can't give any guarantees. I can't be concerned with things as far ahead in the future as 
that. I stuffed my poor textbook, which had been crammed full of writing, into my bag and 
looked down on Haruhi's authoritative eyes, which appeared to be challenging me. I was 
thinking that I should say something, but no words came out, and I moved my neck up and down 
as if trying to deceive her. 

"Anyways, with this you should be able to pass tomorrow's test easily. If you aren't able to figure 
out at least half of them, I'm going to reprimand you in the capacity of the Brigade leader. If 
things become like that, won't it be my responsibility to make you an arithmetic drill? Please put 
effort into this." 

After briskly walking to her desk and picking up her case, Haruhi said, 

"Don't lag behind, let's hurry up and go. Mikuru and the others are going to get tired of waiting." 

Although it's doubtful that anything exists which can rival those three in the ability to patiently 
wait for someone, that was my intention to begin with. While chasing the fast-walking Haruhi's 
hair, which was waving on the top of her shoulders, I began shedding some inner light on my 
honest side, and found that I hadn't really driven away tomorrow's quiz into the depths of 
forgetfulness. I just figured that in the break period before math class or some other time, I could 
ask Kunikida for instruction. 

And today, with Haruhi having switched places with my personal Father Time, hmm, how 
should I put it, today has been classified as another one of those days that I don't care what 
happens. 

In following Haruhi, who exited first into the hallway, I took ten-odd large strides. 

The stride of Haruhi, who was walking at a seemingly wind-cutting speed, was as pointlessly 
authoritative as always, exactly like Shamisen would if he'd heard the sound of a canned cat food 
lid being opened, and in order to synchronize with that pace, which should belong to someone 
half her height, I had to command my leg muscles to move at full capacity. Thanks to all this, we 
were before the club room in a flash, and Haruhi opened the door without knocking, finally 
coming to a stop once she set a foot in the room. 

"Ah, Suzumiya, Kyon." 

Asahina, who ran up to us with a pitter-patter, for some reason was not her maid outfit but a 
normal sailor uniform. 

The girl from the future wore a troubled face, and with a fleeting and anxious voice said, 


"I've been waiting for you. I was just about to go out to call you. Ah, them, it wasn't me that was 
waiting, it was them." 



So that Haruhi wouldn't have to move, I raised my neck and inspected the room from above the 
shoulder of her sailor uniform. 

"Geh!" 

Without thinking, I blurted this with a strange voice. 

Nagato was reading a book in the corner of the room, Koizumi was sitting on a table chair, the 
smile coming out on his face being curtailed for everyday life, and then there was one thing 
happening which was unpredictable. 

Asahina turned back towards the inside of the club room, 

"Everyone, thanks for waiting. We don't have enough teacups and so I couldn't prepare tea, um, I 
did try preparing them one by one from about 30 minutes ago... I didn't really know what to 
do..." 

I understand your distressed expression. 

The clubroom is totally overloaded. 

There wasn't even a need to check the color of their indoor shoes. I'm sure that one year ago, we 
all floated about with that same atmosphere. How should I put it, they're "fresh," although that 
expression may be a little too plain. 

The new first year guys and girls crowded the inside of the Literature Club clubroom. 

My estimate would be about 10 people. 

They all directed their gaze at Haruhi and me, and for some reason made strange smiles. 

"... Could it be that you're brigade applicants?" 

And what preceded the replies of Asahina and Koizumi was, 

"Yes!" 

The chorus voice of the ten guys and girls. 

Hearing their youthful chorus, which was nurtured by a desire of unknown foundation, my 
mouth, unharmonized with anyone, came out with its catchphrase. 


Oh boy... 



P-5 


Monday. Morning. 

Because that "stuff" happened yesterday, my inner feelings were complicated, though that didn't 
mean that I let my face slip into a complicated expression. The problem was Haruhi, who was 
proud of her own skills of intuition that are sharp like a utility knife. After distorting my ill- 
intending thoughts, she could probably turn them 360 degrees and arrive at the right answer. 

At best, I need to keep wearing this mask that I've conjured up. 

For better or for worse, Haruhi, who had arrived at school before I did, sighed and attached 
herself to her desk while looking fatigued somehow. 

It's not possible that she's been tired out by the weekday obligation of commuting to school, it's 
probably something more like a lack of sleep due to watching late-night movies. 

Well, this is certainly convenient. I would wholeheartedly like to take a moment of tranquility 
from the energy-drained Brigade leader, and so I arrived at my desk as quietly as possible and 
quietly placed my case nearby the desk. 

As I listened to what seemed to be the sound of Haruhi's hair and clothing rustling as she slightly 
raised her head at my back, I continued staring at the blackboard which was undirtied by chalk. 

The bell rang, and I continued staring patiently until Okabe-sensei came to harmonize the 
classroom. 

If it's sleep shortage we’re talking about, actually I was experiencing the same thing. Yesterday, 
thanks to being forcefully transplanted into an unrealistic place, my head-clearing had been hard 
to get. 

It's also caused partially by my worrying that the phone might start ringing in the middle of the 
night. 

It's probably because of that. 

In the middle of second period's class. Classical Literature, I'd already begun to drift away on my 
boat. This need to sleep, which is nigh inescapable, is thought to be promoted by the spring sun 
whose light illuminates the classroom. At my back, Haruhi had long ago started breathing in a 
sleeping pattern, and there's no way it'd be a problem if the Sleep-Study Clinicians rose just one 
more man in number... 



It's no good. It's seriously as if from something like Sleep Hell, the strongest of the demons 

has barged in 

I fell into the hand of the demon of short-term sleep, and I had a dream that was among the worst 
of possibilities. 

A vicarious experience of an event which actually happened... 

Memories of a day in my third year in middle school 


In the boundless tedium of everyday life which I was powerless to fix in those ten-odd years, 
there were times when I'd be surprised at finding myself thinking about something disturbing. 

For example, such things as "won't a missile which the military misfired come and hit us, won't a 
falling man-made satellite which is still burning make a direct hit somewhere in Japan, won't a 
gigantic meteor fall and plunge the world into unprecedented chaos," not because I desired a 
catastrophe which would allow me to feel despair in my daily existence, but just because I 
happened to think about them. 

And when I'd talk to my classmate friend Sasaki about this, 

"Kyon, that's a syndrome of modern entertainment. You've been reading manga or novels too 
much." 

She would explain this to me with her usual courteous smiling floating onto her face. 

That was a word I'd never heard before. 

As a matter of course, I asked her. 

What on Earth is that? 

"It's understandable that you wouldn't have heard it before. About the word I just used," 

After that short preface, she continued, 

"Reality is not constructed in the same manner as movies or dramas, novels or manga. That's a 
disappointment to you, isn't it? The protagonists in the entertainment world, one day, suddenly, 
will find themselves faced with an unrealistic phenomenon, sense trouble, and will find 
themselves placed in a situation which could hardly be called pleasant. In the majority of cases, 
those stories' protagonists will, using intellect, bravery, a hidden power, or through developing 
an unspecified talent, overturn their broken-down circumstances. However, those are stories 
which undoubtedly can only occur in the fictional world. And it's because they are fiction that 



they are consequently realized in the entertainment world. If we were to posit that a world like in 
movies, dramas, novels, and manga was made to be ubiquitously visible in everyday life, then 
those forms of entertainment would not longer be entertainment, they would be documentaries." 

It was a theory I seemed to understand and not understand at the same time, so I truthfully told 
her so. 

Sasaki produced a chortling laugh from the inside of her throat. 

"To put it in other terms, something like reality is supported by hard laws, see. No matter how 
long you wait, aliens will not come to attack Earth, and an ancient evil god will not be reborn 
from the seas." 

How would you know something like that? 

Are you trying to say that there are things which absolutely cannot happen in this world? 

Even if it's a small, the probability that a giant meteor could hit Earth shouldn't be zero. 

"Did you say 'probability?' Listen, Kyon. If we're talking about probability, it's definitely true 
that nothing becomes impossible. For example," 

Sasaki said while pointing at the classroom wall, 

"If you charged at that wall with all your effort, the probability of you passing through and 
appearing in the adjacent room is not zero. But see, you'd probably say that there's no way you 
could pass through a wall. However, that's untrue. In the quantum world, in spite of the presence 
of an electron insulator which should absolutely prevent the passage of electrons, it happens 
often that at some point the electrons pass through the very object and appear in another location. 
It's called the tunneling effect. If we consider things using that as a basis, if the chemical 
elements that compose your body were to be broken down, since there would be nothing but 
particles which are the same as electrons left, it's not impossible that you could pass straight 
through the wall without making a hole in the same manner. But the probability is about such 
that if you were to charge the wall once every second, even if you did this for 15 billion years, it 
would never happen. That is to say, wouldn't be fine if we called it 'impossible?'" 

What the hell are we talking about just now? 

When listening to Sasaki's speeches, it usually happened that my own thoughts would gradually 
become obscure, I would get the feeling that I had been deceived, and the conversation would 
end. 

A gentle smile would open on Sasaki's noble features, and she looked at me from across. 

"And moreover, Kyon. If you were to be thrown into a dimension in which the world of those 
unrealistic stories existed, the question of whether you would be able to act as conveniently as 



the protagonists who appear in fiction do can only be called exceedingly dubious. If you ask why 
they can so freely wield intellect, bravery, hidden power, and special abilities to topple adversity, 
that would be because it was written that way. So, where is the author of your story?" 

I don't remember making any kind of response. 

The above is a conversation between Sasaki and I which occurred on a day in June two years 
ago, in our classroom when we were in the third year of middle school. My first meeting with 
Sasaki was when she became my classmate in the beginning of Spring, but as we strangely got 
along well in conversation, our relationship came to be one in which we simply talked about 
whatever pleased us. 

Sasaki was, as far as I know, the only student who had completely read the Ellery Queen series. 
By the way, I haven't read them myself. 

For every type of topic Sasaki would know an amusing outline to give. 

Fate had it that Sasaki was even in the same courses as I was in the cram school I was forcibly 
made to go to, and if I were to say that our intimacy was on a level that, say, at lunch break we'd 
eat school lunch together, you'd probably get the big picture. I'm essentially the type of human 
that likes reading things like manga magazines alone during meals, but if it is with this person, I 
can use my utensils in comfort. 

However, we didn't have a single point of contact outside of school or cram school. If I was 
asked if I considered her a close friend, I think my answer would probably be "no." 

Sasaki puts her elbow on my desk such that she is leaned over. Her two black eyes that sparkle 
nicely with twinkle, among her other well-arranged features, stood out especially. If she were to 
get rid of her roundabout and questionable terms, she would certainly be attractive, I think. 

As a test, I tried saying something exactly as I had thought of it. 

"That's an interesting thing to say!" 

She made a face as if she had just swallowed down a roar of laughter. 

"I've never understood the reasoning behind making the question of whether one is attractive or 
unattractive an issue in this life. I think that I want to be rational and logical, no matter the time, 
place, or situation. In accepting reality as it is, emotional and sentimental thought processes can 
be nothing but obstructive noise. I can't think of emotion as anything other than a crude shelter 
which impedes human evolution's progress towards autonomy. Especially feelings of love, it's 
like a kind of mental illness!" 


Is that so? 



"A long time ago, there was a person who said so. It was a very thought provoking statement, so 
I still remember it. You probably want to say crazy things like, 'well if love didn't exist, marriage 
couldn't happen and kids couldn't be made!"' 

I stayed silent. 

Well then, what do I want to say? 

"Just look at wild animals. There are definitely kinds among the rest that seem to love their 
children, protect them, and raise them. But that doesn't come from love." 

Sasaki only moved the bridge of her lips. 

It was a smile with the pretense of being evil. 

It seemed like she wanted me to ask her a question, so I did so. 

"Well then, what does it come from?" 

Sasaki said thus: 

"Instinct," and from here she made me listen to a one-sided exposition on whether love and 
emotion were different things, whether they were united, or whether if they were united could 
they be separated, and when at some point she shifted to a rhetorical analysis on the problem of 
the difference between whether or not human nature was good or evil, the shadow of a third 
party fell upon my desk. 

It was Okamoto, a person in the same section as us who had come bringing worksheets about our 
future plans... 


The bell rang lightly, the hearing of which was the end of my refrain. 

I woke up just when I was able to recall the facial features of Okamoto. I immediately confirmed 
my current coordinates. This is the classroom of 2-5 in North High. The break time has 
unconsciously arrived. Haruhi appeared to still be in dreamland. Her soft, rhythmic breathing 
ringing near my ears. 

Two persons sleeping without getting called up, how rare, in fact nearly a miracle. If it is because 

we had already been blacklisted by the clear-headed teacher as being hopeless cases 

Hmm Haruhi may feel happy, but for someone like me, whose academic results are not 

exactly desirable, this is not something to be relaxed about. 



After all I came here with the goal of graduating, at least that is what my parents planned. 


Because I stacked my textbooks to be used as a pillow just now, I rubbed my face with my hand, 
checking if there are any marks left on my face. In this period of time, whatever I had dreamed 
of just now seemed to have been totally erased from my memory. Huh? Why do I keep feeling I 
had missed a very important phrase? Although I remember Sasaki appearing, I am unable to 
recall what exactly is in the conversation. 

I flicked on my temples with my finger, it hurt. 

This is the reality. Whatever happened just now was a dream. While it is easy to say that "This is 
something to be expected", but I have to confirm whether the world I am existing in now is the 
real one occasionally, waking up the negatively stubborn subconscious of mine that kept drifting 
into past memories. 

Sasaki, Kuyoh and Tachibana Kyoko, although considered real enough, but the side I am 
standing on is not there, but here. Here being the one of our Brigade leader dozing off behind me 
now. 

This is a fact to never be, or ever be forgotten. 

If this reality is ever facing destruction, I would change it back to this old self no matter what. 
This is what I am determined to do. 

Not because I did it because someone told me to, nor was it for anyone, after all I do not wish to 
be among the ranks of the superheroes or humanitarians, who are of a totally different moral 
standing than myself. In fact, this is totally for myself. 

I had made this decision long ago, right during Christmas last year. 


During lunch break, Haruhi disappeared from the classroom. I thus joint my tables with 
Taniguchi and Kunikida, blissfully enjoying my lunch. 

The reason for always mixing with these few friends is not because I find adding more names to 
my friends' logbook difficult. To put it simply, it is because this two are friends that I get along 
pretty well with. I have not thought of bringing myself further away from them even till now. I 
hope to pursue this matter with the school, who failed to sort the classes properly. It is also 
because of this that I decided to remain friends with this two still. 

"Kyon, there is a question I do not know whether I should ask." 

Kunikida asked while looking at me innocently, carefully removing the skin from his chum 
salmon. Hearing how natural he spoke about it, I immediately replied. 



What about it? 


"Did you see Sasaki recently?" 

I nearly swallowed the prune I am chewing on together with its skin. 

" Why?" 

Did Sudou's middle school gathering network reach Kunikida by now? 

"Not long ago, I guess it is about the beginning of April." Kunikida put down his chopsticks. "I 
participated in the national mock examinations organized by the cram school and met her at the 
exam hall. But I did not really chat with her, and I don't know whether she noticed me in the first 
place." 

Why did you suddenly remember this? The new school term had started for so long. 

"Because the results of the examinations came out yesterday, you know, those which recorded 
the rankings. Just when I was looking for my name, I discovered hers first. She was indeed in her 
own form. Her total scores were much higher than mine." 

Kunikida started moving his chopsticks again. 

"And so I thought, I have to get a better score than her next time. This is just a temporary target 
anyway, a pseudo-opponent. I think Sasaki-san's rankings would not adjust too much, so as long 
as I get a rank higher than hers, it will be a confirmation of my own abilities. I think Kyon would 
know which school Sasaki-san aimed to go to, and so I asked." 

"No idea." 

This coversation must move on as soon as possible, or else 

"Oh, I am unable to take it as I did not just hear anything from just now." 

Taniguchi flashed an evil grin. 

"You talking about Sasaki? The one Kyon was incredibly intimate with during the middle school 
days, right?" 

You see, this bummer with an incredibly keen sense had already swallowed the bait together 
with the hook. 


I immediately exercised my right to denial, transforming into a loyal disciple of the passiveness 
sect, concentrating on finishing my lunchbox. Taniguchi is like a cat prancing at its prey, full of 
curiosity. 



How exactly was she as a person? 


"A very cute girl, and a very clever one at that. You can say that she is strange too if you want to 

put it that way. Hmm I always felt that feeling of strangeness was orchestrated. Yeah, indeed 

a strange person." 

Sasaki said you were strange too, how matching. 

"Really? But the symbolism should be different. Sasaki is conscious of her being strange, but 
when I am pointed out to be strange, I still felt surprised myself. But she understands herself very 
well. I feel that she is putting herself into a frame that is built on the basis of her understanding 
of herself, all the time ensuring that she doesn't exceed the frame." 

Indeed, from the way she speaks, it does feel so. 

"So I wanted to know if she is like this now. After all Sasaki-san attended a private high school 
with a high promotion rate isn't it? Most students there should be guys. I am a little worried, for 
if she keeps restricting herself within that frame, won't she feel fatigued?" 

Facing Kunikida, who was not exactly carrying a look of concern, Taniguchi stuffed a piece of 
cauliflower into his mouth before continuing. 

"This would have exceeded my operating frequency. I had enough of strange women. Suzumiya 
is like this too. Wait. No, this is totally unrelated to Suzumiya. Tell me, why do I always have no 
fate with cute girls? But now that I am promoted to second year, perhaps it is better to target the 
underclassmen. But there are no connections. I must think of a way to solve this problem before 
the summer break comes along." 

Facing Taniguchi, who started talking like a rapid-firing machine gun for no reason, the most I 
can offer him is "Just do whatever you want". Upon remembering that I had just met Sasaki 
yesterday for a gathering with three other abnormal crows, I lost my appetite. This connection 
between Kunikida and Sasaki is no doubt a coincidence, but hearing the mention of her name at 
such a convenient time makes one have the "This may be some kind of premonition" kind of 
unscientific thoughts. Just like a reminder to "Not forget this point" while I am summarizing a 
story, it has a very unnatural and otherworldly feel to it. 

Is it a warning? Looking at yesterday's situation, let's not talk about Sasaki first, Fujiwara and 
Tachibana Kyoko did not show any signs of threat or pressure. Kuyoh too. Although she always 
gives a off a very strange vibe, but we have Nagato, and now even Kimidori-san was sent to the 
shop. That is why I can relax somewhat and treat the entire issue as if it is no big matter. 

Thinking about it clearly, the SOS Brigade would be united no matter what. But, it does not 
apply to their side. Looking at the state of things, they do not have an esper as strong as Koizumi 
while having a more self-centered time traveler than Asahina-san (big), as well as an alien that 

seems to know none of the etiquette on Earth the connection between the trio is just so weak. 

And they wanted to raise Sasaki to the status to god, but Sasaki herself refused to agree. 



If they wanted to defeat the unbeatable Haruhi on our side, the cast still seem a bit lacking. They 
should have found more people. The current state is literally neutral. What exactly are they 
thinking? If they expected a person of the caliber of Tachibana Kyoko to be able to move me, 
they have really underestimated me. 

Just like the headache you get in the morning from sleeping enough but too much, I endured with 
the uncomfortable feeling as I continued finishing my lunchbox. 

Taniguchi's conversation had already turned to the number of first year girls that are of AAA 
grade and above, but that had already exceeded my scope of interest. She would not be one of 
those who would want to enter the SOS Brigade anyway. 

After all Suzumiya Haruhi and the SOS Brigade's heroic deeds had long reached the ears of the 
neighboring commoners. This is what I heard from Sasaki as well. 


After dismissal that day, Haruhi and I stood up right after Obake-sensei stepped off the teachers' 
podium and left the classroom immediately. 

I originally thought that we would be heading to the clubroom as usual, but 

"Kyon, you go ahead. I have some place I have to visit." 

Haruhi threw her schoolbag at me, walking at a pace faster than a Frisbee being thrown out and 
disappeared quickly. 

Could it be that she had sharper eyes than Taniguchi and discovered an AAA grade first year 
before him and is now running off to kidnap that person? Even if it is so, it cannot be helped. We 
can only follow her wishes. I had long cultivated such an attitude. 

Thus, I decided to proceed to the clubroom at a leisurely pace. 

Those first years who joined the sports clubs should have begun their practices by now. One can 
also see the ex-third years in their level shirt. You can even meet them along the walkways, quite 
a refreshing feeling. Although "refreshing" is such a cliche word to use, but there are no other 
expressions to describe this situation. 

If anyone wants to join the Literature Club, Nagato can also finally display her airs as a senior, 
that isn't too bad. But again, she is after all an alien humanoid interface that has to read over 
three hundred Earth books per year. Even if she had juniors, it is difficult to imagine that they 
feel happy talking to Nagato with her transparent protective layer. But compared to looking for a 
book you want to read alone, it is still better to have a buddy to exchange books with. One can 
then exchange their newly-bought books with the other and would be much more convenient. 
After all I do not have the ability to critique or discuss the contents of the book after finishing it, 



so even though I borrowed books from her before, I had never lent her any. I might as well find 
some day to give her a library card as a gift or something. 

The me who had arrived in front of the clubroom would never forget to knock on the door first to 
confirm that there is nobody inside. This time round, there is no response. I immediately opened 
the door and found it empty. I am actually the first, how rare. 

I threw my schoolbag on the table and sat on the foldable chair. When I felt a sense of boredom, 

I started wondering why am I feeling this way before suddenly realising. 

Oh, it is because the one who is always here no matter what and making one think she stays here 
permanently, Nagato, is nowhere in sight. 

But she could have been late because her cleaning duty delayed her. Or maybe she went to help 
the Computer Research Society. 

While waiting for the other four, I picked up the hardcover book left on the table, seemingly 
belonging to Nagato, and took a glance at one of the pages. Looks like it is a story about an 
installation eternally seeking a place it belongs to. 


a - 6 

After remaining frozen for a few seconds, Haruhi immediately issued orders to chase everyone 
except Asahina-san and Nagato out of the clubroom. The reason is really simple 

"Mikuru, just change first. Of course the waitress one. The cheongsam, I hate to admit, I do not 
think it suits you. What a waste. Never mind, I will prepare it for you in the future, just bear with 
it for a while." 

"Eh? Change right now?" 

Asahina-san gingerly held onto the two shoulders of her sailor uniform, looking at the first year 
boys and girls walking out of the room obediently. 

"Kyaa~" 

And she raised her head up like a small parrot. Haruhi immediately pointed her finger at her. 

"Mikuru, what are you of the SOS Brigade? I think you should have known it by now. Let me 
confirm it, tell me who are you again." 


Kyaa~ That, I am ? Eh? What am I ? 



Compared to the unconfident Asahina-san who kept her head raised to face Haruhi, this leader of 
ours, with confidence exceeding that of the founder of a new religion and is so proud that it is 
criminal, pointed her finger at the little animal-lookalike third year while continuing in a high 
pitch. 

"The mascot, mascot! Mikuru must have a radically different role. Of course it isn't just limited 
to this, but the bottom line is still that. If basics like this are not defined it will affect the 
structures above. So this is how it will go for this impromptu admission exercise. Being a symbol 
that is easily understood, you have to remain a waitress here. Or else the new members may be 
confused. First impressions are the most important. Uh huh, I can hire a bodyguard for you. 

Since Mikuru is gifted with such talents, you should have more confidence and present yourself 
as a waitress well. Understand?" 

Haruhi revealed a scheming grin that is easily understood. 

"Do not let them leave later. I will be giving the opening speech on behalf of the SOS Brigade. If 
anyone dares to attempt escaping, do not feel sorry for them. Just inject general anesthetic and tie 
them up." 

Saying that, she closed the door. 

From the inside of the partition-converted wall, one could hear the sound of shirts rubbing 

against the skin and various "Kyaa~ Suzumiya-san Very itchy wahaha " calls. Other 

than listening to these extremely arousing calls that are mixed with tears and laughter, Koizumi 
and I are unable to find other things to do and could only turn around and stare at the first years 
standing at the walkway. 

They should have used this chance to escape, but these ten odd first years' eyes are shining with 
curiosity and anticipation, waiting here, following Haruhi's instructions. I counted eleven people, 
seven males and four females. Looking at how new the shirts with green stripes that they are 
donning, it proved that they had been high school students for hardly a month. 

Should I say something to them first? Just take it as a senior giving them some words of advice 
or something. 

I took a glance at Koizumi. This purely symbolic "Assistant leader" handsome lad, continued 
giving his usual relaxed smile. From his bright eyes and relaxed expression, it seems none of this 
people are part of Koizumi's group. That is to say, this is a scene that can be seen at any club 
activity in any school: applicants taking a tour of the clubroom. However, the SOS Brigade is not 
an organization that is recognized by the school authorities, and would never engage in any 
normal club activities. Does this gang of people know that? 

"They should have came only after they knew." 


Koizumi told me softly by my ear. 



"From my scope of knowledge, every teenager here has no other intentions. Very clearly, all of 
them are genuinely looking forward to being a member of the SOS Brigade. At least there are no 
espers, aliens or time travelers in this group." 

Since you are so sure about it, I guess it must have its proof. Now that Tachibana Kyoko, the 
time traveler dude and Suou Kuyoh and whatever else has appeared, even if that gang decided to 
sneak a few of their comrades into North High's SOS Brigade, it is nothing surprising. 

"I had already checked the background of all these newcomers." 

Koizumi mentioned it calmly. 

"It is even more impossible for them to be from Tachibana Kyoko's side. After all the 
'Organization' had already been monitoring them closely. Also, if someone with similar fixtures 
to Kuyoh-san appears, I am sure Nagato-san would not remain passive. If a time traveler snuck 
in, that would be even better, for we can get hold of that guy and question their intentions. So it 
is quite a waste that none of those gathered here could possibly be a time traveler." 

Koizumi maintained his jovial look and smile, sweeping a glance across the ten odd newcomers. 

"No problematic character currently exists, if we were to talk about any remaining problems " 

Going even lower in volume, I guess I am the only one who can hear it now. 

" it would only be with the students Haruhi accepted as members. For she definitely would 

not accept everyone as a member, so the problem lies with who will she choose and how would 
she go about it. It would be great if even one person is left. Although to those first years who 
really hoped to join us in our fun, them being mere mortals, I guess that is quite pitiful." 

If there are anybody who is trying to send themselves to the lion's mouth now, I would of course 
stop them due to humanitarian reasons. But if it is too late, don't blame me. 

I took a glance to my sides, noticing that these nearly-a-dozen first years are really nothing 
special in terms of physical appearance. The reason for them looking a bit childish is probably 
because they are still middle school students just last month. There are people trying to hide their 
laughter, as well as pairs of girls talking and giggling among themselves. Don't know why, I felt 
that the stares from the girls seemed to be grading Koizumi and myself. Is this my inferiority 
complex causing a hallucination here? 

Just when I am silently staring 

"Okay, sorry to keep everyone waiting!" 


"All of you can come in now. Also, Kyon, because there are not enough chairs, go borrow some 
from other places. There should be some at the Computer Research Society or other clubrooms.' 



Seems she wanted to order me around like an odd-jobs worker. 


"What do you mean? Don't just stand there, go now! The first years on that side, please come in! 
It is alright! Quick, come in now!" 

Haruhi started making some agile and abstract signals. 

"I will go help too. If there is a need to carry over ten chairs, I am afraid he cannot finish it in a 
single trip." 

Koizumi moved his back away from the wall he is lying on, I can only helplessly nod at Haruhi 
while sweeping across the classroom quickly with my eyeballs. 

Asahina-san in her waitress costume is standing beside the table, maybe it is due to the sudden 
change in the ratio of boys and girls in the clubroom, she became really shy and her face turned 
red like a lady from a wealthy family seeing the world for the first time, huddling her shoulders 
close together. On the other hand, Nagato did not change her posture at all. 

Koizumi and I knocked on the numerous doors all over the clubroom block, finally gathering 
enough to have a chair for each person. After returning, we saw the first years had lined up in a 
row like in troop inspections. 

Haruhi was at the leader's seat with her chest puffed up, Nagato in her usual permanent spot 
while Asahina-san, stoned in a corner, unsure of how to proceed. Upon seeing my face, she 
revealed an expression of some relief. The clubroom that usually has a low population density 
now holds over three times the usual amount of people, so it felt rather unnatural looking at that. 
Guess even people other than Asahina-san will feel threatened. 

Koizumi and I placed the foldable chairs along the perimeter of the table. Just when I wanted to 
address the first years for a bit 

"All of you please take a seat." 

The Brigade leader snatched away the opportunity to do so. 

The ten odd first years slowly settled down after the usual formalities of offering seats to each 
other. Koizumi moved his chair to the side of the wall and sat on it, carrying an expression of the 
chief presiding examiner’s assistant. Just when I wanted to take a seat as well, I discovered that 
there are no chairs available for myself. 

"Huh?" 

The foldable chairs originally available in the clubroom are enough for all members and a visitor. 
With the additional ten chairs borrowed, there should be just enough for the first year applicants 
as well as ourselves. Why are there not enough? I did a head count again. 



The total number of first years present are Twelve? Did I count wrongly? There are eleven 

when I counted at the walkway just now, seven males and five females. I observed intently, 

but still failed to identify who did I miss out just now. It felt that everyone was here and it would 
be impossible for me to know who exactly did I leave out anyway. One thing that can be 
confirmed would be that I have a poor photographic memory. 

It can't be helped, I can only stand here. At this moment, Asahina-san started panicking again. 

"Ah, ah there are not enough tea cups, That I still want to make tea how " 

While it is not impossible to go steal some Styrofoam cups from the cafeteria, but making tea for 
those first year applicants, is it reasonable? Just when I wanted to ponder about the question 

"There are some paper cups in the shelves. Just use those." 

Haruhi made a conclusion. Asahina-san hurriedly took out the air sealed pack of paper cups, 
before anxiously continuing. 

"Kyaa~! Sorry, there is not enough water, have to get some " 

"Kyon. Water. Use the highest temperature one." 

Receiving the edict from Lord Haruhi, I can only force some expression of unhappiness, both 
hands holding onto the kettle and running off. 

When I ran back, panting, the only welcoming factor is the expression of Asahina-san, 
apologetic yet so cute that it makes one happy at the same time. "Thank you, Kyon.". This is 
enough. 

Not knowing when it began, the first years that could now be described as "dozen" in quantity 
kept their attention focused on Asahina-san in her waitress costume, putting the kettle onto the 
cooker. 

Haruhi proudly continued. 

"Our brigade has an exceptional courier and waitress, you can look all over the country, but the 
only club that have cute waitresses making tea for free is us." 

"Ah, Eh, Yes " Asahina-san shyly replied. 

"Oh " The first years responded. 


Are you all idiots? This is not something to be proud about. This is not where curious people 
should come. 



"And" Haruhi acted all high and mighty and said with a bright smile "Mikuru's tea-brewing skills 
are forever innovating, the tea in the last meeting tasted somewhat weird, it is really interesting, 
and I like the name a lot too." 

"Ah hah, That Yes, that is my new creation. Very good." Asahina-san started to lose herself 

like a loyal dog being praised by its owner. 

"Oh " The first years responded again. 

I think you all had better stop "Oh"-ing. This is the time to turn back and run away. Because that 

whatever tea had a medicinal taste to it. How do I put it although it is improved by Asahina- 

san's image, it is still something that is really difficult to have a high score. Other than Haruhi 
who has a habit of finishing the tea in one gulp, it is not to be recommended to anybody else. It 
can even be used as a dare. 

When Asahina-san was happily preparing tea, Nagato continued sitting in her corner to read her 
book, ignoring everything happening around her. Koizumi had totally turned into an inspector. I 
can only stand beside the door like the Door God while listening to Haruhi's speech. 

"Alright everybody. You all indeed possess the will to join the SOS Brigade. Although the 
student council's continual disturbance prevented us from advertising on a major scale, I had 
known right along that willed first years would definitely appear. Indeed, the most important 
factor is to come here voluntarily. Seriously speaking, I had surveyed the first year classrooms 
for a few times, but everytime I went, I did not see any difference between all the first years. But 
from now on, you people are now better than those first years that are not present here. 

Regarding this point you can have full confidence in me. But, just this is not enough. The reason 
for the existence of my Brigade is totally different from those cultural clubs you see everywhere 
else, and thus there must be a clear line drawn in the members recruited. I guess you people must 
have understood the history of the SOS Brigade well before coming here right?" 

I guess it must be quite a headache to be experience such a questioning method. After all a 
question like this isn't very clear in the first place. 

"Do you all have anything to ask?" Haruhi concluded. 

I guess it could be described as unexpected, for among the first years', a burly-sized guy with 
short hair raised his hand. 

"I have a question." 

"Tell me about it." 

"I am actually not too about sure what the club does. I only found it interesting, and so I came. 
Because since middle school I had heard a strange club existed here. Once I came to North High, 
upon discovering that it really does exist, I curiously popped by. Although my intentions are a bit 
strange, but is it okay even if it is so?" 



Haruhi immediately stood up, giving a magnanimous smile at the guy while walking closer to 
him. 


"Alright, you shall end here." 

"Huh?" 

She grabbed the collar of the guy's shirt, dragging him away with the power of a mini hoist 
crane, opening the door and walking into the corridor before finally letting him go. 

"What a waste, you failed right at the first stage of the Brigade entrance examinations. It must 
have been hard on you, please polish up your skills before coming by again." 

She locked the poor guy out of the room before turning back. 

"You all should never underestimate me. Me, as the leader of the SOS Brigade, carries the 
responsibility of saving the world by overloading it with fun. It is not an exaggeration even if I 
said that I had never thought of anything else other than that. So even when it comes to recruiting 
new members, I have no plans to make any concessions. Such problems left unsolved will 
gradually become bigger and cause decay." 

The ones frozen are not limited to Asahina-san, but includes all first years and myself as well. 
Since when did the Brigade entrance examinations begin? These first years are really unlucky, 
they have not even tasted the tea made by Asahina-san yet, even though in paper cups, but they 
will be deported already. 

"I will make it clear first, I am very strict when it comes to humor. First, vulgar topics and any 
acts of imitations are strictly rejected. Those who do extreme stuff to make people laugh are not 
to pass. They are to win by conversations only. I think the original theory for people laughing 
is " 

Why must we have a debate about laughter right now? 

"Haruhi." 

Because members below the assistant leader are not useful at all, I shall speak instead. 

"What exactly is happening now? Isn't the person from just now too innocent? What exactly are 
these so-called Brigade entrance examinations? Is the person deported once they say something 
you do not like to hear?" 

"I am not so high and mighty. I wanted to hear them saying that are more productive and with 
more gusto. Answering questions is something that is really simple, all you have to do is to use 
your brain and match the level. The factor that will gauge the standard would be by asking 
questions." 



"So what you are trying to say is, the person from just now", I pointed in the direction of the door 
and continued "Questions like those are of too low a standard?" 


"To put it honestly, that is true." 

Haruhi returned to the leader's seat as if nothing has happened, faking a smile of a gentle female 
senior and sweeped through the first years that is now lacking one person, and said. 

"So, any other questions?" 

Needless to say, nobody opened their mouths again. 


Maybe because they had cowered under the threat, when Asahina-san handed the tea to the 
various first years, the first years sat down quietly, remaining totally silent. 

The only person speaking is Haruhi herself, she is just like a storyteller narrating the chronicles 
of Shinshaku Sanada Jyuu Yuushi, detailing the events that happened since the inception of the 
SOS Brigade. Because the contents are partly exaggerated, one does not have to trust it totally. 

Because a person left, I dragged the vacated chair over and sat down beside Koizumi. The 
passive assistant leader seemed to be smiling at the grand total of eleven (is it really eleven?) 
first years, appraising them. I might as well do the same. After all Haruhi seemed to find no need 
for any self introduction and did not ask for any of their names, neither their birthday nor class. 
Just when I wanted to give them a nickname each according to their physical appearances, my 
line of sight fell very naturally on a particular person. 

Let me clarify first. I meant no harm or designs. She is a girl. 

Among all of the first years listening to Haruhi's one-man show, the girl seemed to be the only 
one who showed any sign of interest. 

Hearing the repeated homeruns at the baseball match, she let out a low cheer; hearing the lone 
island killer mystery, she covered her mouth in shock, before regaining her smile after knowing 
the truth; hearing the exaggerated showdown against the Computer Research Society, she 
nodded her head repeatedly; hearing about Sakanaka-san's pet's incident, she again let out a small 
smile. 

What a pure and innocent first year. 

Calculating from the heights of their head, she seemed to be about the same height as Nagato. As 
for weight, she should be lighter than her. The hair seemed like it had been dried with a hairdryer 
after a perm, curling up like a smiley face at the ends. This can be taken as a unique feature. I 



don't know if it is because the uniform is not too fitting, the uniform seemed rather loose when 
taking a closer look. 

The more I look at her, the more I feel subconsciously that I had seen this girl somewhere before. 
But, I am confident of never seeing her before at the same time. Not only those a year younger 
than me, but it doesn't even seem to be the case even when all the girls I had met since the past 
are included. In my mind, no matter how I tried to lengthen, shorten or straighten the hair, I still 
have no recollection of any kind. Could it be that she is the sister of one of my friends and thus 
looking a bit alike her brother? But I do not seem to know such a brother either. This mystery felt 
as bad as choking on spicy tofu. 

I guess my gaze must not have been too polite, but the girl did not seem to notice, intently 
concentrating on listening to that one-man show. Her expressions kept changing, and looking at 
them is really interesting. That is a listener type of girl who would trust any lies, allowing the 
speaker to feel excited and satisfied. 

" This should be all. Our SOS Brigade thwarted the evil plan of the student council president, 

allowing the Literature Club to continue to exist. But they must be like those villains in the 
superhero shows, never learning their lessons, instead extend their dirty claws onto us, but those 
who will lose eventually are still them. SOS Brigade and I would never fall halfway, it has 
always been this way till now. And, indeed, this will not change in the future either!" 

And that seemed to be the concluding sentence. Haruhi raised one of her hands and stopped for 
quite a while. 

Just when I thought of carrying the cup of tea that has turned cold by now to another corner 
while some sightseeing, Haruhi started giving me weird eye signals, even winking at me once in 
a while later on. With her jaws opening and closing like that, what exactly is she trying to hint 
at? 

Just when I am painstakingly thinking of a way to reply to Haruhi's signals, a tiny clapping 
sound entered my ears. Those clapping sounds from those palms that could be described as 
"small" are not very loud, and the owner of the palms is the first year girl I noticed just now. 

Under that girl's lead, the rest of the first years suddenly realized and immediately started 
clapping as well, Asahina-san who was looking left and right also frantically started clapping. 

Haruhi nodded her head, seemingly satisfied, at the same time giving me a look of guilt. This can 
only be blamed on you for not planning it properly in the first place, things like this must be told 
before the event. 

Haruhi whizzed her hand up to stop the clapping. 

"You all should have remembered the summary of the history of the SOS Brigade. I planned to 
get right into the second stage of the Brigade entrance examinations, but thinking that you people 



need some time to prepare as well, so the activities for today ends here. Those with guts, please 
come again tomorrow ! " 

At this moment, I noticed the armband on Haruhi's hand no longer read "leader" but "examiner". 
"Alright, dismissed!" 


After the first years left in quick paces, Haruhi turned on the computer while humming away, 
telling the outside world she is in a good mood while clicking around with the mouse. 

Because Koizumi and I first split up to return the foldable chairs, when I came back and tried to 
talk to Haruhi, the computer had already booted up. 

"What exactly are you planning to do?" 

I asked the brain beneath the hairband of Haruhi, rhythmically moving to her movements while 
opening the usual foldable chair with my symbol on it. 

Haruhi who skimmed me a glance gave me an expression of happiness, how irritating. 

"Now that those first years who wanted to join the Brigade had gathered so much courage to 
come here, but none of your actions will entice them to join us. I think they may not come 
again." 

"Maybe." 

Haruhi continued touch typing quickly while saying the following. 

"If the end result is that, I do not really mind. If they gave up just because of this, I do not want 
them to join us either. I only hoped to find some people with zeal, but just zeal is not enough, 
that first year have to pass all my Brigade entrance examinations as well. The obstacle course is 
not only long, but the obstacles are of a high level as well. After all the SOS Brigade of ours is 
not desperate enough to recruit those who came here to watch the show." 

Actually the reason for existence of this organization in the school is near to zero, and did not 
lack any members all along. Even if we look from the perspective of the student council, they do 
not want to see first years being sacrificed like an offering to the gods. And I am determined to 
prevent any situation when we increase the population density of this room exponentially. After 
all Asahina-san's tea is not infinite. Preparing enough cups and water is already quite a time- 
wasting matter. 


Do you really plan to recruit new members? 



I looked at Haruhi, who is taking a whiff of Asahina-san's newly made tea. 


"Nagato, Asahina-san, and Koizumi too, were all forced into the Brigade by you. So I am 
wondering if you spotted any first years that just entered this school that would ignite your fetish 
for kidnapping?" 

Break time walks should still be continuing at this moment of time, after all she seldom stays in 
class. 

"Totally none." 

Haruhi said with a concluding tone. 

"At least I haven't spotted anyone who could be a mascot. But I suppose there should at least be 
some people with other special characteristics, and are those that I have never imagined. The 
kind that would give you a surprise. Not those you can see everywhere, but those with a super 
unique character traits! Also, if all of them are those commoners, won't it be too uninteresting? If 
all of them are just moving towards a particular direction, wont it be too repetitive? Librarians 
wearing spectacles are introvert and quiet, short haired and active girl joining a sports club and 
things like that, it is just too boring." 

Isn't that good? It beats having those with a strange character or a flaw in their characters. I, on 
the other hand, welcome anybody. 

"I am totally uninterested in that kind of people. Although the many varieties of human character 
could be matched in different ways. But some thought should be paid into the matter before the 
matching. This is proof of how humans' creativity are worsening with the progress of time!" 

Such questions shouldn't need you to worry about them. This doesn't sound like something the 
you who dragged Asahina-san in back then would say. 

"Isn't Mikuru a unique talent? So of course it is alright." 

Even if you put it that way, humans had lived this way for so long till now, I am sure there would 
be some way to continue living in the future. Beats using all kinds of senseless creativity and end 
up making Earth fly off or something. 

Haruhi revealed her teeth as if she is trying to bite the sides of her cup off. 

"I wanted to look for people with more creativity or unique traits! It would be best if the first 
year would be the direct opposite of me, and inject some fresh air. It is because I wanted to 
confirm these traits that I thought of the Brigade entrance examinations. I think we can use the 
elimination method. Otherwise, I should be able to notice someone with a unique mental 
structure at first glance when we meet again." 

Haruhi put down her cup and put her hand back at the mouse. 



"What I am making now is the Brigade entrance examination's written paper. That is what I am 
doing last night as well. I always wanted to step out into the upcoming future with my own 
power! Kyon, the ancestors have got it right, we should always model after others and change 
ourselves. That is to say to never look down but look up beyond the grasp of our own hands. If 
humans do not have the "I have to get there" kind of determination, he or she will only keep 
dropping down!" 

Such teachings that would cause calluses to grow in your ear could be told slowly to the ears of 
horse. Besides, that is how Icarus died, from getting too near the sun. I always think that there 
should be a limit to everything. A common advice was to eat only 80% full isn't it? 

Asahina-san noticed that my teacup was empty and rushed forward with her teapot. 

If Asahina-san, who had totally regarded herself as a waitress by now, were to work at a 
coffeeshop, I am afraid there would be a sharp rise in her salary. I am unable to control such 
imaginations of mine. Now that we think about it, where did her activity funds in the current 
time frame come from? Is it paid by the time travelers' organization? 

Because the population in the room decreased, the clubroom had also returned to normal and I 
could be slightly at ease. Other than Nagato who would never change her reading position no 
matter what and Haruhi whom I had just argued with just now, other members had returned to 
their usual seats with the relaxed atmosphere. 

Sitting facing me, Koizumi took out yet another new board game and put it on the table. 

"How about a round?" 

Seems to be Classical Renju. Since it is rather boring here, I shall just treat this as some mind 
exercise and play a few rounds with you. But before that you must first tell me the rules. 

"It is not much different from conventional Renju. You just have to remember the rules." 

I followed in the lead of Koizumi, putting pieces onto the board while learning how to play 
through experience. 

We continued playing like this till it is time to leave school. Unconsciously, I had already won 
against Koizumi continuously for a few rounds by now. I don't know if it is because I learn fast, 
or is it Koizumi that is plain weak. No matter what, these activities that does not help academics 
in any way continued for a while. At evening time, when Nagato closed her book, after waiting 
for Asahina-san to change out of her clothes, we left school. 

How many first years would come knocking on the clubroom door tomorrow 



fi -6 


No one came to the clubroom. Let's not talk about Haruhi who kept running around the school, 
seldom would Nagato not arrive by this time. Did she go to the Computer Research Society side? 
Koizumi had after all entered an elite class of sorts. Reaching the second year, it is only 
unavoidable that they have to pay more attention in the various aspects. What a troublesome 
class he entered. I heard that the form teacher of the ninth class is someone who is more 
interested in the prospects of the students rather than educating them. Koizumi seemed to have 
seriously thought about the issue as well. Or else he would never have chosen to enter such a 
class that is difficult to even catch your breath. If he had relied on the 'Organization' for help, I 
think he would have no problem entering any university he wanted. But Haruhi's choice of 
school will most likely be his anyway. As for me, a thought so long away should be entertained 
only then. A year and a half later I ought to have known my standard better. If we made a 
comparison on the basis of usual results, the chance of Koizumi and I entering the same school 

would be smaller than an ant hole. As for Haruhi Hmm, that is not something I have control 

over. Just let her go somewhere where she can express her own abilities. 

Just when I am slowly reading Nagato's book, the person with the ability to beautify the world 
with all sorts of colours finally arrived. 

"Ah, Kyon." 

A walking anion that attracts anything around it, Asahina-san, carefully closed the door and put 
her bag down like a small squirrel who had just returned from picking acorns. 

"I still thought I am a little late today, how unexpected that no one else had arrived yet. Where is 
Suzumiya-san?" 

"I don't know where she went right after lessons. But it is spring now, maybe she had the desire 
to suddenly run a few rounds." Just like the flowers storing up their energy in winter for 
blossoming in spring, or the seeds of the Camellia. It is not like I did not have the feeling of 
wanting to run around, because the winter this time round seemed exceptionally long. In order to 
let Asahina-san change as soon as possible, I immediately stood up, but after taking just a step, I 
turned my head back, "Asahina-san". 

"Hm?" 

Facing the clothes rack with both of her hands extended out to take the waitress costume, 
Asahina-san let go of the costume. "Hm, I remember." 

Changing to a serious expression, I continued while selecting my choice of words. 

"What exactly do those bastards hope to achieve? I meant for coming back to this time frame. 
Looking at the state of things, it doesn't seem to be to observe Haruhi, I really cannot guess what 
is his purpose here." 



I said this while feeling frustrated. Would it be alright if I tell her that the time traveler Fujiwara 
had came again? Regarding him calling himself Fujiwara and the Sasaki issue, which is more 
important? Should I say it at all? 

"Urn " 

Asahina-san pressed onto her lips with her fingers: "That person's motive is That, I am not 

told of. Hm, but I think he did not come here with the motive of doing anything bad. This is my 
personal opinion, since my superiors did not issue any orders, I guess this must be the case." She 
seemed to find it really hard to talk about the issue, I suppose she don't want to touch any of the 
classified information. 

I recalled Asahina-san (big)'s side profile while saying: "Did that bastard come from a time that 
is related linked to our time frame?" 

This is the question I cared the most about. 

"It should be unquestionably linked." 

Asahina-san continued while categorizing her thoughts: "That guy is the same as myself 

that , he came to the time frame through a similar method. Using the TPDD to move time 

this Because it will leave a mark on the time plane " 

At this moment, she suddenly seemed to realize something: "Eh ? This matter, it is supposed 

to be classified information, and yet I am able to say it. Why?" 

Although I wanted to ask as well, but I am mysteriously able to understand the concept behind it. 
"Asahina-san, what is TPDD an acronym for? Can it be told?" 

"Time Plane Destruction Device Eh?" 

Asahina-san hurriedly used her hand to press against her mouth, at the same time widened her 
eyes. 

"Liar it is supposed to be classified." 

That is a phrase I knew of already. Because in Tanabata four years ago, I had heard about it from 
the mouth of Asahina-san (big). It must be since then that it became declassified. 

"It seemed to contain some very dangerous words, what exactly do they mean?" 

"That When we are crossing the time planes " 


I looked at the mouth of Asahina-san opening and closing, and wondered in my heart what fish is 
she exactly trying to imitate. At this moment 



No, I can't say it. It seems not all of the restrictions had been lifted. 


That is a more comforting tone. But I have the same thoughts as well. If one knows too much of 
knowledge exceeding human intelligence, the end result would definitely not be something good. 
Like if one hears something top secret about the country is leaked, that person will definitely be 
silenced or enter the wanted list of the Interpol. This had always been a fact. 

I shrugged my shoulders, Asahina-san revealed a smile. 

"Sorry, Kyon. This is all I can tell you for now. But, in the not-so-distant future, I can definitely 
tell you more. For the restrictions to be lifted just a little, it shows I had done something useful 
today." 

Asahina-san revealed an expression like a dandelion that had successfully blossomed and 
repeated: "Definitely, in the not-so-distant future." 

That is exactly the smile I wanted to keep out of others reach by locking the room. Did anyone 
capture her smiles in a photo? I really hope to be able to store up this current moment. But, I did 
not bring a camera, nor did I lock the door, much less hang up the latch. What I got was her 
smile. 

I believe you, Asahina-san. Your hard work will definitely be rewarded. I am very clear about 
this point. I also knew what you did in order to grow up this way. Even though I do not know 
how many more years must the current Asahina-san in front of my eyes live before she can 
become Asahina-san (big), but to me, personally, I hope she does not grow up that quickly. 

Because, the closer this senior who looks even younger than me gets to the elegance of Asahina- 
san (big), it meant that the time for our parting draws even nearer. 

Since this is so, I hope that she can maintain her current state and thought process, and not 
develop a more selfish one. Everyone will miss you, especially Haruhi. Without anyone to hug 
on cold days, that person will definitely feel very regretful. 


I guarded the door on the corridor while reading Nagato's book. At this moment, the female 
leader whose wind that her fingernails stir up are also powerful and influential, together with the 
assistant leader that acts like a free bodyguard cum aide, walked towards me shoulder to 
shoulder. 

I saw the smile on Koizumi that looked like it really came from his heart and only had a single 
thought. What an untimely bastard. If you came alone we could have shared some secret talk. 
Now that you are sticking so close to Haruhi, it is totally impossible to talk now. I originally 
planned to share my thoughts on Tachibana Kyoko with him, but that guy would have probably 



heard it from somewhere by now. It may not even be surprising even if I told him Kimidori-san 
is working at the shop. It is very rare to find a person with so little excitement in his life. 

"Is Mikuru still changing?" Although I do not know where she come back from, but Haruhi does 
not seem to be breathless. She seemed really happy when she walked towards me, and after 
pushing me aside, stuck her head in without even knocking on the door 

"Wa, ah, wait, wawa!" 

Asahina-san produced cute screaming sounds. 

"It is only your back zipper that is still undone, small things like this does not matter." 

Haruhi grabbed my shirt collar and dragged me into the clubroom. Haruhi's description of 
Asahina-san is really very accurate. In her costume, Asahina-san had her back facing the 
window, with her hands frozen midway, stretching towards her back. This is everything that I 
saw. Haruhi is like a soccer ball kicked beyond the last line of defence, revolving around the 
back of Asahina-san, completing the last time in the changing process. But all she did is pull up 
the zipper and put up the hairband anyway. 

I returned Nagato's book back to its original position, turned my head and faced Koizumi with 
his head sticking in, appearing to be like a peeping tom observing the female bath at a higher 
platform in a public sauna, and asked: "What did Haruhi and you do before going here?" 

"Nothing much." Just like a seal swimming in the sea, Koizumi slid into the clubroom and closed 
the door without changing his expression of nonchalance: 

"We only happened to meet on the walkway on the first level, we are definitely not carrying out 
some secret mission behind your back." 

"Really?" That would be good. Even if you didn't call me along, I would not have any bad 
impression of you. But again, even if Haruhi wanted to go demand activity funds from the 
student council, I am sure you would have just followed along anyway. If it is really so it will be 
a headache, I don't really want to be involved in any school conspiracy story. 

"The student council president isn't someone without any brains. Even if he wanted to find 
trouble he would have found a more convenient time." 

Koizumi sat on the permanent seat of his while facing Haruhi with a smile: 

"For example, if we started doing some mass advertising to recruit members, it would 
immediately " 


"I did not have any plans of doing any major advertising " Haruhi immediately responded 

from her desk. 




...all she did is pull up the zipper and put up the hairband anyway. 

" But we cannot just go without advertising. Putting a leg into the cultural clubs' open house 

was because we felt we must at least do a bit of work. I guess it meant the so-called checking on 
your enemies? Just as I had expected, the student council president indeed pop by and gave some 
cold advice. Just look at it yourselves, my checks against the enemy had succeeded." 

If you are behaving this way just to see how the student council responds, I guess I can give you 
the title of Adviser. But again, didn't you just think of this? You are just commenting on an 
incident after it has passed. 

"Does that matter? As long as the ending is the same, the process does not really matter. 

Working really hard to earn one hundred thousand yen, and picking up a one million yen note, 
returning it to the owner and then getting one-tenth of the amount as a sign of thanks has no 
difference at all." 



It is way different. If working, one may have some luck with the opposite gender (Taniguchi 
Theory). What's more important is it is not that easy to pick up a one million yen note. But the 
leader started rocking her chair and changed the topic. 

"The recruitment exercise failed to work at all. But, while there are no interesting first years back 
then, they may be hiding somewhere else. There are also those who are wondering if they should 
come forward. But after the weekend, they should have found the answer to whatever thoughts 
they have." 

Haruhi revealed her pearl-white teeth and took out a piece of paper. 

"So I pasted this on the notice board of the school." 

I took the piece of A4-sized paper. It has Haruhi's handwritten words on it: "Notice of holding of 
Brigade entrance examinations. Limited to first year students." 

Hearing me say that, Asahina-san stopped preparing her tea and turned her head over, 
continuously blinking her eyes. 

"Only limited to first years students?" 

"Mikuru likes the fresh and active kind as well? We should eat sashimi that is caught on that day 
itself since it will be nicer. So of course we will be aiming for those newly-arrived and jumpy 
ones." 

Exactly which fishery port is this? 

"But, this , there is no mention of the SOS Brigade here at all " 

Seeing how observant Asahina-san is, Haruhi replied smugly: "If we were to mention the SOS 
Brigade like this, the student council president and his gang will come over and make noise. This 
is just a concession, a concession. Although I am very unwilling, but in order to win the enemies, 
sometimes, taking a step back is important as well. We just have to mention the Brigade entrance 
part. After all there are no other brigades in North High. 

There is no cheerleading brigade in this school, and so we SOS Brigade are the only ones who 
are remotely linked to the word "brigade". If there are any else it will be strange. 

"No, Haruhi." I asked a more fundamental question. 

"What is the so-called examination? Don't tell me you have to take an examination in order to 
enter?" 

"Yes." 


Why did you give such a nonchalant expression? 



'What exam is it? 


"That is a secret." 

"When is it held?" 

"We can begin once those willing to join come by." 

I read the words on that paper again. Other than the "Notice of holding of Brigade entrance 
examinations" written in extra large font, the only other line is "At Literature Club clubroom" 
that is written in smaller font. 

Haruhi turned her chair to other other side and looked out of the window: "Entrance, Literature 
Club, if these two words fail to make a first year understand, I don't want that guy. Our SOS 
Brigade namesake had already spread among those cleverer ones. It is best to avoid those who 
don't even know this. I don't want those idiots who will come here and still ask me "What do we 
do here"? 

You are one of those idiots yourself. 

Asahina-san placed the kettle onto the cooker and looked afar: 

"First years New members? " That tone of reminiscence, is it because she realized that 

she was already third year and would be leaving the school in less than a year's time? 

I passed the paper that would only make those not in the know become more confused back to 
Haruhi: "I hope there would be someone who really comes, those people who have a screw loose 
in their mind and want to join the SOS Brigade." 

"I do not want people with a screw loose. But, you are right, I hope some people would come. Or 
my painstakingly prepared Brigade entrance examinations would be wasted." 

Remembering that she had started working hard on the computer since last week, so this is what 
it is for? Let me take a look. 

"No way." 

Haruhi stuck her tongue out at me: "This is after all a Brigade secret, not something a small fry 
like you can read. If you wanted to take a look, rise in your ranks." 

I did not want such a high rank in the first place, so I immediately gave up wanting to do so. 

Haruhi, who turned on the computer, clicked on the mouse while continuing: 

"But, in actual fact, the examination questions could not really be described to be as complete. 
Yesterday, while I was making that notice I thought about it. I am so serious that I even lost 



sleep over it. Because this is part of the responsibility of the Brigade leader after all. Although I 
just pasted the paper up and it is unlikely for someone to arrive so quickly, in case someone 
really does, we shall just do the practical examinations first." 

How many stages are there in actual fact? I meant that exam of yours. 

"This is a secret as well." I pray for the unfortunate bloke who had to go through all this while 
moving to sit facing Koizumi. Taking a closer look, he already had the board and the pieces 
ready. 

"How about a round?" 

I thought it would be Chinese chess again, but it seems to be Classical Renju. Since it is rather 
boring here, I shall just treat this as some mind exercise and play a few rounds with you. But 
before that you must first tell me the rules. 

"It is not much different from conventional Renju. You just have to remember the rules." 

I followed in the lead of Koizumi, putting pieces onto the board while learning how to play 
through experience. 

We continued playing like this till it is time to leave school. Unconsciously, I had won against 
Koizumi continuously for a few rounds by now. Don't know if it is because I learn fast, or is it 
Koizumi that is plain weak. No matter what, these activities that did not help academics in any 
way continued for a while. 

Haruhi seemed to be entering something into the computer, Asahina-san reading some coloured 
book on traditional tea making, Koizumi and I continued playing. How boring. 

" ?" Wait, it seems strange, Too abnormal. 

I raised my head and took a look around the clubroom, after noticing the abnormality, both 
Haruhi and I shrieked. 

"Huh?" "Eh?" 

"Where's Nagato?" "Where's Yuki?" 

"Ah?" Asahina-san sat up. 

"Talk Talking about it, we indeed haven't seen her. But as per normal, I made tea for her 

too." Beside the book I placed on the table lay Nagato's tea cup. It is not drunk by anybody and 
had already turned into cold green tea. 



I heard a click sound. Taking a look, Koizumi kept the various pieces and closed the portable 
board game set. The eyebrows on that handsome face curled upwards. That is his only response. 
The assistant leader remained silent. 

"Could she have gone to the Computer Research Society to help?" 

Before I stood up, Haruhi had already hurried out of the clubroom like a rabbit. What exactly is 
with such a rush? It is just Nagato not at the clubroom 

Haruhi returned with a speed faster than a boomerang thrown by even the most skilled. 

"They said she did not drop by." 

"Ah, th-that, could she be involved in a committee meeting or cleaning duties?" 

Asahina-san offered a more cheerful proposition, but I have never heard of Nagato being 
appointed as the head of decorations, disciplinary mistress, head librarian or anything related to 
higher postings. 

There was a saying that went "things will straighten themselves out as we go on." Isn't this very 
appropriate for times like this? But Haruhi beat everyone in taking out her phone and made a 
phone call. 

"Tip-tap. Tip-tap" went the indoor shoes of Haruhi against the floor. 

After a few seconds. 

" Ah, Yuki?" 

She seemed to have picked up the phone. I felt a bit more relaxed. 

"What happened to you today?" After remaining silent for about ten seconds, Haruhi, with her 
ears pressed against the phone, had a sudden change in her facial expression. 

"Eh, at home? It can't be!" Haruhi's mouth formed a "?" shape. 

"Fever? You caught a flu? Did you go to the hospital? Oh, you didn't? Medicine?" 

Koizumi, Asahina-san and myself were looking at Haruhi at the same time. 

Nagato had a fever? 

Haruhi frowned with a heavy expression: "Yuki, you should have contacted us at times like this. 

We were so worried. Did you sleep well Ah, sorry, did I wake you up? Is it? So sorry. 

But Dummy How can you say this is nothing! I can tell just from your voice, are you 

fine?" 



Haruhi continued talking loudly while bringing her bag nearer to herself. 

"Yuki, it is alright now. You return to sleep first." Following that, Haruhi asked for a few 
directions from Nagato before hanging up and putting the phone down. 

She stood there, biting on her nails: "This is not something as simple as "oh no". We should have 
noticed this earlier. Kyon, Yuki did not come to school today. Did you know that?" If I knew, I 
wouldn't be passing my time aimlessly here, watching you prepare some lame notice or play 
Renju. 

"What a bother. Yuki's form teacher has some problem with his or her brain. He or she could 
have at least informed me. She is not fit to be a teacher if he or she is unable to do something as 
simple as contacting!" 

Although you are only finding any random target to vent your anger on, this is the only time I 
agreed with Haruhi's words of anger. Why wasn't I informed? 

It would be alright even if it wasn't a teacher. They could have at least sent someone to come 
inform Haruhi or myself. 

Nagato, why didn't you tell me that you will not be coming to school, which is actually quite an 
extraordinary event? 

"Mikuru, change quickly!" 

"Ah, yes, yes!" 

"You must be fast!" 

"Yes!" 

Asahina-san started taking off her waitress costume without even waiting for Koizumi and I to 
take our leave. 

Haruhi was so determined to leave school quickly that she seemed to find turning off the power 
switch of the computer a hindrance. Koizumi and myself as well, dashed out of the clubroom 
right after picking up our bags. 

Although sounds of Haruhi assisting Asahina-san in changing could be heard from the other side 
of the partition wall, those two are totally silent, which is quite abnormal. 

I must make use of this opportunity. 

"Koizumi." 


What's the matter? 



Did you know that Nagato would be taking sick leave today right from the start? 


"If I did, what would you do?" 

"I would blame you for not mentioning it. According to the severity of the situation, there is a 
possibility of suspending you in the air as a punching bag." 

"I swear to god I did not know about it." 

Koizumi returned a smile that seemed somewhat flinty. Those that are under a transparent glass 
mask. 

"Nagato-san is not one who would have a fever due to the violation of Earth's viruses and 
bacteria into her immune system. She is not a martian from the past. I am afraid it is the same 
situation as last time." 

Images of chilly winter currents flooded my mind once again. A ski resort with snowflakes 
everywhere, an unreal mansion standing on the dark shadows of the snow mountain. An enclosed 
space. It is an experience that would make anyone dislike winter. 

And Kuyoh. A doll-lookalike girl with hair resembling that of the waves in a violent ocean. The 
humanoid interface of the Canopy Domain. 

I am wondering what exactly her motive in appearing is. She did not do anything yesterday. I 
thought that was because of the presence of Kimidori-san. 

"Their invasion had started once again, those intelligent lifeforms existing beyond Earth, 
unrelated to the Integrated Data Sentient Entity. Obviously, their first target would naturally be 
Nagato, the strongest wall of defense of the SOS Brigade." 

Koizumi's explanation had an unprecedented level of seriousness. 

"Once they force Nagato into an inoperable state, those left would be us humans who regard 
Earth as our mothers. What a waste, the 'Organization' are effortless against these thought 
entities. Although the situation on the time travelers' side is unknown, Asahina-san should not be 
able to do anything much currently. But " 

The only members left would be Haruhi and 1. 1 am very clear of the fact that I am the most 
powerless. But for Haruhi 

Once she knows who Nagato fell sick for, Haruhi would probably torture that person till he or 
she does has all her skin torn off before deciding to stop. Even if it involves turning the world 
topsy-turvy, she would definitely rescue Nagato. Now what? At this time now? Should my trump 
card be used at this time? 



"I don't think so." Koizumi's voice had exceeded calm and is progressing towards desolation. Is 
this some hallucination caused by my mental state of being? 

"That may be their motive. Do you know that it is because the trump card can only be used once 
and not twice that it is effective. Any rash activity may just lead to the enemy's advantage. In 
addition, this can be said to be a better situation already. I do not have any problems now, 
Asahina-san too. If they decide to launch a full-fledged attack, we would not have been able to 
move around freely at this time. There are no reports of Tachibana Kyoko taking any rash action. 
The same should apply to the time travelers' side. This must be a solo mission by the aliens not 
from the faction of the Integrated Data Sentient Entity. Since it is so, we should treat it with a 
more serious attitude as well." 

Just when I had squeezed my reply up to my tongue, the door opened with a slam and Haruhi 
rushed out, holding onto the arms of Asahina-san. Her first sentence when she opened her mouth 
was: "Alright, let's get moving to Yuki's house!" She screamed in an expression close to scolding 
before running ahead of us. 

Obviously 

Members who dare to oppose this leader of ours do not exist at all. 


To be continued in "The Astonishment of Suzumiya Haruhi" 


(End Volume 9 Chapter 3) 



THIS IS A 
8AKA-TSUM 
PROJECT! VISIT 
THE CROUP AT 
BAKA-TSUM. NET 

£boo\<zv by: yomm 



PISCLAIMER 

ALL MATERIALS' COPYRIGHTS RESERVEP BY THEIR RESPECTIVE AUTHORS 
ANP THE ASSOCIATEP PUBLISHERS. PLEASE RESPECT THEIR RIGHTS. 

WORKS WILL BE PELETEP UPON REQUEST BY COPYRIGHT HOLPERS. 



